<img src="https://tc54.org/images/ecma.svg" align="right" height="70" alt="Ecma logo" /> <!-- markdownlint-disable-line MD041 -->

# Agenda for the fifth meeting of Ecma TC54-TG2 on 2024-10-25

- **Host**: Remote
- **Dates and times**:
    - 14:00 to 15:00 UTC
      - 16:00 to 17:00 CEST (Europe/Brussels)
      - 10:00 to 11:00 EDT (America/New_York)
      - 07:00 to 08:00 PDT (America/Los Angeles)
      - 23:00 to 00:00 JST (Tokyo, Japan)
- **Attendee information**:
  - https://meet.google.com/ayu-mpvf-ycw
  - [Meeting invite](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/event?action=TEMPLATE&tmeid=NXVqbW9mMDMzaDVuZmlsMDdsZWZsMm9kNXVfMjAyNDEwMjVUMTQwMDAwWiBjX2Q4YjE1NDIwZGZmMTdiNzk1OWUyOWE1MWFlMzI0MDk1MWNiZTM4ZGIxZGFlNDU5NzJhODVjOWE3MTEyMDQyMDVAZw&tmsrc=c_d8b15420dff17b7959e29a51ae3240951cbe38db1dae45972a85c9a711204205%40group.calendar.google.com&scp=ALL)

## Agenda items

- Opening, welcome, and roll call (Chair)
- Review last call minutes: https://github.com/Ecma-TC54/tg2/blob/main/meetings/2024-10-11.md
- Discuss list of issues and PR @ spec (John):
https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1H2QAcADLaMNgcR5BMK7bQxzH5D3X-SdO/

## Attendees

- Philippe Ombredanne, creator of PURL, Lead maintainer of AboutCode, TC54-TG2 convener
- Steve Springett, ServiceNow, OWASP Board of Directors, TC54 chair
- Aryan Rajoria, master’s student, Georgia Tech, observer
- Adam Herzog, AboutCode
- John Horan, AboutCode
- Dennis Clark, AboutCode

## Notes

- The meeting is being recorded.
- Intro by Philippe, preliminary matters, proposed agenda
- Minutes from last meeting: approved subject to several edits to be made by John
- Steve: Ecma 262 Javascript spec – attempting to align Package-URL going forward, will update as appropriate
- Philippe:
  - to discuss: status of addressing issue and PR backlog, key issues; would be very helpful to discuss how to prioritize
  - OCX conference last week in Germany; much discussion of PURL; significant community concern re what package a PURL points to, as well as how to create a syntactically correct PURL for a particular package; makes clear how important the backlog cleanup is; PURL <=> CPE also subject of discussion, explicit mapping may be required
  - John invited to join the purl-spec repo to assist, as well as Oliver Chang and Jan Kowalceck
  - Philippe is walking us through the gSheet of issues/PRs with the goal of prioritizing
  - Should the PURL types be part of the spec?
    - Steve: believes the PURL type should not be part of the PURL spec, would be a massive undertaking requiring constant revision and updating, inaccurately suggesting the spec is not stable
    - Philippe: suggests the spec will not include types, but rather focus on principles, and each type’s spec will live in its own individual document
    - Dennis asked in the chat: should the spec identify the location of a canonical list of package types?
    - Steve: a link to the authoritative list in machine-readable format would be powerful; envisions simple JSON array (described in some detail)
    - Philippe: we should tag pending issues as either “core spec” or ”PURL type” to help prioritization and focus the spec preparation work
    - Steve: we should document the more common qualifiers as part of the core spec rather than at a type-by-type level, when possible. This would be great for the spec.
    - Philippe:  We will focus on a subset of issues that are spec-specific for the spec.  We’ll take this approach going forward!

- Structured JSON data for each PURL type:
  - Philippe: I am comfortable we can define the format for this; beyond this would there be a way to generate a library in multiple programming languages that would use these definitions?
  - See issue https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/issues/310

- Timeframe for the spec @ Ecma, meeting logistics
  - Steve: timeframe?
  - Philippe: Q1 2025
  - Steve: link is on the OWASP community calendar; we should track who is attending (allows us inter alia to track authorship).
  - Philippe: agreed.
  - Philippe: John suggested a separate community meeting, while keeping in mind that we want to avoid excessive meetings.
