<img src="https://tc54.org/images/ecma.svg" align="right" height="70" alt="Ecma logo" /> <!-- markdownlint-disable-line MD041 -->

# Agenda for the eighth meeting of Ecma TC54-TG2 on 2024-12-06

- **Host**: Remote
- **Dates and times**:
    - 14:00 to 15:00 UTC
      - 16:00 to 17:00 CEST (Europe/Brussels)
      - 10:00 to 11:00 EDT (America/New_York)
      - 07:00 to 08:00 PDT (America/Los Angeles)
      - 23:00 to 00:00 JST (Tokyo, Japan)
- **Attendee information**:
  - https://meet.google.com/ayu-mpvf-ycw
  - [Meeting invite](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/event?action=TEMPLATE&tmeid=NXVqbW9mMDMzaDVuZmlsMDdsZWZsMm9kNXVfMjAyNDEwMjVUMTQwMDAwWiBjX2Q4YjE1NDIwZGZmMTdiNzk1OWUyOWE1MWFlMzI0MDk1MWNiZTM4ZGIxZGFlNDU5NzJhODVjOWE3MTEyMDQyMDVAZw&tmsrc=c_d8b15420dff17b7959e29a51ae3240951cbe38db1dae45972a85c9a711204205%40group.calendar.google.com&scp=ALL)

## Agenda items
- Opening, welcome, and roll call (Chair)
- Review last call minutes: https://github.com/Ecma-TC54/tg2/blob/main/meetings/2024-11-22.md
- Update on list of issues and PRs for Ecma spec (John):
https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1H2QAcADLaMNgcR5BMK7bQxzH5D3X-SdO/
- Salve: question re Package-URLs vs. version URLs
- Steve: status of documentation update
- Philippe: John’s work re sorting out the encoding issues/PRs

## Attendees
- Philippe Ombredanne, creator of PURL, Lead maintainer of AboutCode, TC54-TG2 convener
- Steve Springett, OWASP Foundation / ServiceNow
- Salve J. Nilsen, CPAN Security Group, observer
- Adam Herzog, AboutCode
- John Horan, AboutCode

## Notes
- The meeting is being recorded.  Our code of conduct applies to this meeting.
- Intro by Philippe, preliminary matters, proposed agenda
- Attendees commented on topics they’d like to discuss today.
- Minutes from last meeting: approved
- Steve:
    - TC39 created their own markup – can produce online documentation for an Ecma standard as well as pixel-perfect PDFs with a single build process.  Steve shared his screen and showed the online documentation.  He asked the group to review the material that he has written in the current draft and walked us through the various sections.
    - Philippe: one open issue is how we use the current core spec document (PURL-SPECIFICATION.rst) in the purl-spec repo.
    - Steve will begin exploring how the .rst version of the spec can be integrated into the contemplated process.  His documentation is not Markdown but rather basically an extension to HTML – called ecmarkup: https://github.com/tc39/ecmarkup
- Salve: he’s working on a CPAN implementation of PURLs, has questions re the relationship between Package-URLs and version URLs and explained in detail.  But regarding the use of PURLs to specify a requirement when one does not know the version, there are version-related issues re clearly communicating the requirements re presence or absence of an associated version URL.
    - Philippe and Salve discussed in detail the differences between PURL for module vs. PURL for distribution – are they really the same package type?  Salve explained details of the CPAN implementation.  He and Philippe also discussed the CPAN syntax for versions/version ranges as well as dependencies and dependency resolution.  Salve: The distribution is the actual package but the tradition is to refer to the module that contains the package.  The PURL has two roles: before and after dependency resolution.  That kind of clarity would be useful to introduce into PURLs.  Philippe: let’s create a GitHub issue to continue the discussion.
- John shared the URL for his encoding work Google Sheet.  Philippe mentioned planned incorporation of RFC 2119; Steve: CycloneDX has also done so, with limitations on all-caps usage. Steve will share his RFC 2119-related documentation.
- Discussed meeting schedule around Christmas
    - Confirmed Dec 20 meeting
- The meeting was adjourned.
