<img src="https://tc54.org/images/ecma.svg" align="right" height="70" alt="Ecma logo" /> <!-- markdownlint-disable-line MD041 -->

# Agenda for the first meeting of Ecma TC54-TG2

- **Host**: Remote
- **Dates and times**:
    - 14:00 to 15:00 UTC on 30 August 2024
      - 16:00 to 17:00 CEST (Europe/Brussels)
      - 10:00 to 11:00 EDT (America/New_York)
      - 07:00 to 08:00 PDT (America/Los Angeles)
      - 23:00 to 00:00 JST (Tokyo, Japan) 
- **Attendee information**: [Meeting invite](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/event?action=TEMPLATE&tmeid=MWd2bzcydWloM2h1dWZsYnBwN3Rxc2sxYXZfMjAyNDA4MzBUMTQwMDAwWiBjXzg4NGRlY2RlNWExNTI5MDJiYjUxYTYyZjg5NTUwZDBmMzc0ODQ4NDUzNGYwOGM2Mzc5MmYyZTY1NGYyYTdlYmNAZw&tmsrc=c_884decde5a152902bb51a62f89550d0f3748484534f08c63792f2e654f2a7ebc%40group.calendar.google.com&scp=ALL)


## Agenda items

- Opening, welcome, and roll call (Chair)
    - Opening of the meeting
    - TC54-TG2 follows its [Code of Conduct](../CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md)
    - [TC54-TG2 video recording and legal disclaimer](../VIDEO_RECORDING_AND_LEGAL_DISCLAIMER.md)
    - Introduction of new attendees
    - Announcements

- TG2 kickoff
    - Discuss PURL and VERS standardization priorities
    - Discuss PURL and VERS TG2 processes


## Attendees:

- Steve Springett, OWASP Board of Directors, TC54 Chair  
- Philippe Ombredanne, creator of PURL, Lead maintainer of AboutCode, TC54-TG2 convener  
- Adam Herzog, AboutCode and nexB Inc., observer  
- Salve Nilsen, CPAN Security Working Group, observer

### Notes:
 - LOGISTICS: we will be using Google meetings hosted by Philippe going forward
 - PROMOTIONS: we will share invites to community members


- TG2 kickoff  
   - Discuss PURL and VERS standardization priorities  
      - Start drafting Ecma documentation from existing PURL specification  
         - PURL benefits from being purely text (ideal for international standardization)  
         - Can use existing templates (Microsoft Word)  
            - Not flexible with other doc editors  
            - Use Markdown to create for easier sharing  
            - Ecma outlines similar to ISO but formatting critical  
            - Refine substance of specification online, then focus on file conversion to Ecma outline  
         - Create glossary of terms  
      - Finalize VERS specification  
         - And merge  
      - Discussion on PURL types   
         - PURL types: specific clarification on how to use PURL for certain package types and ecosystems (example: Go)  
            - involve ecosystems to "own" their own definition, explicitly part of the spec?  
            - How to specify type â†’ create restraints to ensure compatibility (test suite)  
               - Tooling developers can test to ensure PURL implementations work successfully  
               - Idea: define JSON schema to define PURL types  
            - If not standardize PURL types, standardize metadata?  
            - Better define type usage for proprietary/commercial  
         - group discussion on namespace and names  
            - when to use which? specified in each PURL type but what if necessary to merge both? backward compatible, not big impact on spec yo simplify  
         - Not a lot of standardization with current documentation, opportunity to accomplish this with TC54-TG2  
      - Incorporate clarifications as TG2  
         - Purpose of PURL   
            - Provide clear understanding for proper usage  
               - standardization/formalization on reporting dependencies (and need for requirements)  
                  - How to clarify for dependency graphs/resolution, different package ecosystems, cross ecosystem packages  
            - Distinction between what a package provides vs package requires  
         - Overview of tooling that supports PURL  
            - Good resource, outside of the spec  
            - Fostering PURL usage in package management tools and ecosystems

   - Discuss PURL and VERS TG2 processes  
      - See "Start drafting Ecma documentation from existing PURL specification" under "Discuss PURL and VERS standardization priorities"  
      - Determine governance for TG2  
         - Existing repositories (specification)  
         - Reduce number of issues  
            - Review 2-3 PRs during call  
      - Output of this group doesn't have to result in specification  
         - Present spec to TC54 but could also publish usage guide, other documentation

