<img src="https://tc54.org/images/ecma.svg" align="right" height="70" alt="Ecma logo" /> <!-- markdownlint-disable-line MD041 -->

# Agenda for the third meeting of Ecma TC54-TG2 on 2024-09-27

- **Host**: Remote
- **Dates and times**:
    - 14:00 to 15:00 UTC
      - 16:00 to 17:00 CEST (Europe/Brussels)
      - 10:00 to 11:00 EDT (America/New_York)
      - 07:00 to 08:00 PDT (America/Los Angeles)
      - 23:00 to 00:00 JST (Tokyo, Japan)
- **Attendee information**: [Meeting invite](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/event?action=TEMPLATE&tmeid=MWd2bzcydWloM2h1dWZsYnBwN3Rxc2sxYXZfMjAyNDA4MzBUMTQwMDAwWiBjXzg4NGRlY2RlNWExNTI5MDJiYjUxYTYyZjg5NTUwZDBmMzc0ODQ4NDUzNGYwOGM2Mzc5MmYyZTY1NGYyYTdlYmNAZw&tmsrc=c_884decde5a152902bb51a62f89550d0f3748484534f08c63792f2e654f2a7ebc%40group.calendar.google.com&scp=ALL)

## Agenda items

- Opening, welcome, and roll call (Chair)
- Review last call minutes: https://github.com/Ecma-TC54/tg2/blob/main/meetings/2024-09-13.md
- Feedback from OSS Summit in Vienna (Philippe O.)
- Do we want a structured grammar in the spec?
- Input to priorities for reviewing and clarifying the package types?
- Vers spec merged\! [https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/pull/139](https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/pull/139)
- Ascii2doc and markup for ECMA spec (Steve)
- List of issues and PR @ spec (John)

## Attendees:

- Philippe Ombredanne, creator of PURL, Lead maintainer of AboutCode, TC54-TG2 convener
- Steve Springett, ServiceNow, OWASP Board of Directors, TC54 chair, observer
- Jannis Hermanns, Apple, observer
- Adam Herzog, AboutCode, observer
- John Horan, AboutCode, observer
- (excused, could not join: Dustin Ingram, Google)

## Notes:

- Intro by Philippe, preliminary matters, proposed agenda
- Philippe just merged the vers spec today
- Philippe suggested John could share and present at the next meeting the detailed spreadsheet (or perhaps a summary to come) of the open purl-spec issues and PRs
- Review last meeting’s minutes: [https://github.com/Ecma-TC54/tg2/blob/main/meetings/2024-09-13.md](https://github.com/Ecma-TC54/tg2/blob/main/meetings/2024-09-13.md)
- Observations from Open Source Summit EU 2024: PURL used everywhere
- Re structured grammar in the spec: do we want and if yes, what structure, goals etc.?
- Define in a JSON Schema or similar for PURL?  Ideally it would be great to have a syntax, structured grammar that could be converted to various formats; purl validators encounter a range of challenges these days; many imprecise implementations at the moment
  - Steve has started a schema specific to purl types; CycloneDX community has created regex-based validator that works with the major purl spec requirements, could serve as a good starting point for a more-detailed implementation
- Philippe: a number of people at OSS Summit expressed strong interest in the purl spec and in furthering development; there can be conflicts between “creative” purl implementations vs. the overarching goal of interoperability
- What priorities do we have re: clarifying package types?  Steve: perhaps sort by creation date and tackle the oldest first.  Philippe: perhaps split each purl type into its own file.  Easier to manage with that approach.  Steve: and an index of all types.  Perhaps a build step that combines all of the types.  Philippe: .rst vs. .md.  Steve: no need for Pandoc, can write a simple conversion script.  Philippe: oldest first though also consider the most/more popular types.
- “vers” spec has been merged.  Still work to be done yet but a solid start.  See [https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/issues/328](https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/issues/328).
- Philippe: a common challenge is with packages that are not in an ecosystem of their own like C/C++.  SWID has been discussed as an option.  Another combination using DNS was discussed in the community.
- Philippe: Could work as a community to enrich the CVEs with PURLs?
  - Steve: has anyone discussed this with GitHub?  They are a CNA and can specify the purl if they want in their CVE 5.1 feed.
  - Perhaps contact RedHat, Apache and do outreach to each of the major ecosystems.
- Steve: I will be attending a global conference in SF, great interest in, discussion of purl.  Some sort of authoritative guide would be valuable as well – a how-to document – a path to successful purl adoption (e.g., detailed use cases).
  - Philippe: good examples can be very important, e.g., the “correct” default repository_url value for maven.
  - Jannis: will add an issue on the purl-spec repo re a validation “playground”.
- Steve: re: sorting purl types to work on – create a Google sheet?
  - Philippe: suggests we discuss next week when John provides the .xlsx with the open purl-spec issues and PRs.
  - One important goal: community participation in the discussion.
