<img src="https://tc54.org/images/ecma.svg" align="right" height="70" alt="Ecma logo" /> <!-- markdownlint-disable-line MD041 -->

# Agenda for the second meeting of Ecma TC54-TG2 on 2024-09-13

- **Host**: Remote
- **Dates and times**:
    - 14:00 to 15:00 UTC
      - 16:00 to 17:00 CEST (Europe/Brussels)
      - 10:00 to 11:00 EDT (America/New_York)
      - 07:00 to 08:00 PDT (America/Los Angeles)
      - 23:00 to 00:00 JST (Tokyo, Japan)
- **Attendee information**: [Meeting invite](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/event?action=TEMPLATE&tmeid=MWd2bzcydWloM2h1dWZsYnBwN3Rxc2sxYXZfMjAyNDA4MzBUMTQwMDAwWiBjXzg4NGRlY2RlNWExNTI5MDJiYjUxYTYyZjg5NTUwZDBmMzc0ODQ4NDUzNGYwOGM2Mzc5MmYyZTY1NGYyYTdlYmNAZw&tmsrc=c_884decde5a152902bb51a62f89550d0f3748484534f08c63792f2e654f2a7ebc%40group.calendar.google.com&scp=ALL)


## Agenda items

- Opening, welcome, and roll call (Chair)
    - Opening of the meeting
    - TC54-TG2 follows its [Code of Conduct](../CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md)
    - [TC54-TG2 video recording and legal disclaimer](../VIDEO_RECORDING_AND_LEGAL_DISCLAIMER.md)
    - Introduction of new attendees
    - Announcements

- TG2 items
    - Prioritizing key issues for a working version 1 of the standard
    - Merging namespace and name in the PURL spec
    - Golang PURL ambiguities wrt. name, namespace and subpath
    - Merging VERS specification as-is
    - Qualifiers ambiguities like in pypi packages
    - Difficulties to handle generic PURLs and non-packaged code

## Attendees:

- Philippe Ombredanne, creator of PURL, Lead maintainer of AboutCode, TC54-TG2 convener
- Steve Springett, ServiceNow, OWASP Board of Directors, TC54 chair, observer
- Adam Herzog, AboutCode and nexB Inc., observer
- John Horan, AboutCode, observer
- Jannis Hermanns, Apple, observer
- Dustin Ingram, Google, observer

## Notes:

- Intros
    - Dustin: using PURLs at Google, looking to improve shortcomings
    - Jannis: working on security (cloud) at Apple
    - Steve: ServiceNow, OWASP board member, TC54 chair
    - Adam: go-to-market for nexB supporting AboutCode stack (leveraging PURL)
    - John: building tooling using PURL with AboutCode

- Prioritizing key issues for a working version 1 of the standard
    - Eliminating Microsoft Word as part of development work → easier to format specification under Ecma standards
    - Pain points: qualifiers, components vs. packages in PURL
    - Dustin: some ecosystems are under-specified
    - Philippe: how much do we want to put in the PURL?
    - Steve: start by carefully vetting the current 1.0 spec., flesh out and correct as needed
    - Steve: type-specific vs. global qualifiers
    - Philippe: work to take place primarily offline, reviewed at these meetings
    - Target: early-to-mid January
    - 100 or so pending issues and varying importance, priority etc.; John has begun reviewing and others are invited to review as well

- Merging namespace and name in the PURL spec
    - Philippe: some types have a namespace, others do not (e.g., Pypi)
    - Proposal: namespace would not exist as a separate component but be combined with name
    - Dustin: likes the separation of namespace vs. name; has seen many ecosystems that have a method of combining namespace and name concepts

- Golang PURL ambiguities wrt. name, namespace and subpath
    - Philippe: Golang/Go is next
    - Go package/module structure is somewhat similar to Java – file-based hierarchy, but no way to ID when the package/module pieces start or end
    - Dustin: the issue is not specific to Golang; in Java, for example, the SBOM can ID what other things (e.g., packages) it contains – is this issue for SBOMs rather than PURLs?
    - Philippe: explained his different perspective on Go package/module structure, focused on the detailed level at which vulnerabilities are reported; in the wild, people add the path in the name or the subpath component – one or the other
    - Steve: in future we might want to discuss future/backward compatibility
    - Dustin: referred to other data that could/should be included in the PURL
    - Philippe: need to be careful about overloading the path with, e.g., version info; not sure we need to add the spec to the PURL string

- Merging VERS specification as-is
    - Philippe: next – the version range spec; provided a high-level description; goal of this "mini-spec" is to say the spec is specific to a system (type) but we can provide higher-level specifications; interested in merging the current spec version promptly if possible; intdot (using dots to express version data) is a possible replacement/improvement to the current approach (see, e.g., https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/pull/139)
    - Jannis: asked about possible interpretation of what Philippe has begun to describe
    - Philippe responded with some examples, including the shortcomings of semver; accuracy is particularly important in specifying vulnerable version ranges; also want to avoid the "inflation" of weird version syntaxes; one goal: simplify how a vulnerability DB stores version-related data (goal also includes helping downstream consumers)
    - Steve: likes Philippe's proposal – merge it in then ID separate items for a separate PR; emphasize that this is still a snapshot at this stage

- Qualifiers ambiguities like in pypi packages
    - Philippe: one issue: does PURL resolve to single package vs. "family" of packages?; he'll coordinate with Dustin re drafting session; re qualifiers: to the extent possible, we're trying to point to a specific download or artifact
    - Jannis: greater specificity could be needed when a vulnerability needs to be addressed/identified
    - Philippe: at the same time we want to avoid overloading the PURL (referring to qualifiers)
    - Jannis: understood, his comment was addressed to subpath, not qualifiers, component
    - Philippe: we'll add 1+ issues to document the discussion

- Difficulties to handle generic PURLs and non-packaged code
    - Philippe: SWID is another spec, has been used to help specify what the PURL refers to; non-public packages/artifacts raise particular problems re specifying with precision
