<img src="https://tc54.org/images/ecma.svg" align="right" height="70" alt="Ecma logo" /> <!-- markdownlint-disable-line MD041 -->

# Agenda for the ninth meeting of Ecma TC54-TG2 on 2024-12-20

- **Host**: Remote
- **Dates and times**:
    - 14:00 to 15:00 UTC
      - 16:00 to 17:00 CEST (Europe/Brussels)
      - 10:00 to 11:00 EDT (America/New_York)
      - 07:00 to 08:00 PDT (America/Los Angeles)
      - 23:00 to 00:00 JST (Tokyo, Japan)
- **Attendee information**:
  - https://meet.google.com/ayu-mpvf-ycw
  - [Meeting invite](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/event?action=TEMPLATE&tmeid=NXVqbW9mMDMzaDVuZmlsMDdsZWZsMm9kNXVfMjAyNDEwMjVUMTQwMDAwWiBjX2Q4YjE1NDIwZGZmMTdiNzk1OWUyOWE1MWFlMzI0MDk1MWNiZTM4ZGIxZGFlNDU5NzJhODVjOWE3MTEyMDQyMDVAZw&tmsrc=c_d8b15420dff17b7959e29a51ae3240951cbe38db1dae45972a85c9a711204205%40group.calendar.google.com&scp=ALL)

## Agenda items
- Opening, welcome, and roll call (Chair)
- Review last call minutes: https://github.com/Ecma-TC54/tg2/blob/main/meetings/2024-12-06.md
- Steve: discuss the PURL 'type' definition in a machine-readable format.  In addition, discuss the increased community desire for PURLs to represent Microsoft store and similar stores -– need to discuss our plans to engage with relevant vendors, especially re the accuracy of the PURL types.
- Philippe: the 2024-12-18 call (Google Meet) re triaging issues, plus brief update from John.

## Attendees
- Philippe Ombredanne, creator of PURL, Lead maintainer of AboutCode, TC54-TG2 convener
- Steve Springett, OWASP Foundation / ServiceNow
- Jannis Hermanns, Apple
- Adam Herzog, AboutCode
- John Horan, AboutCode

## Notes
- The meeting is being recorded.  Our code of conduct applies to this meeting.
- Intro by Philippe, preliminary matters, proposed agenda
- Minutes from last meeting: approved
- Attendees commented on topics they’d like to discuss today.
- Steve and Philippe discussed the goal of engaging with the various stores (Microsoft, Apple et al.).  Philippe: doesn't see any special barriers with this undertaking.  Noted the growing interest in addressing C/C++.
- Steve – re PURL type definitions, doesn't consider this to be a prerequisite to completing the PURL spec, but we need at the least to make initial decisions re contents of PURL spec and related considerations.
    - Steve and Philippe discussed various topics that will need to be addressed, e.g., the needs of various PURL types in a schema.  Steve agreed: what are requirements, differences among types, what characters are prohibited, and similar factors/attributes.  Steve: we should be able at least to include a preliminary reference to the nascent requirements, documentation etc.  Philippe agreed.
    - Using PR 361 as an example (https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/pull/361), Philippe discussed one updating idea: affirmative statements only, e.g., MUST but not the open-ended MUST NOT formulation.  We'll create a companion FAQ to provide relevant details and discussions that might otherwise have been addressed in the core spec by the MUST NOT approach.  Philippe summarized the role of the RFC 2119/8174 guidelines and how to apply to the core spec., proposed uppercase to start with, and later in the process we can make lowercase.  Steve responded to a question Jannis raised: perhaps we should simply remove the use of SHOULD -– avoid potential confusion re the respective meanings of MUST vs. SHOULD.  [JMH correction: I mentioned RFC 2119's treatment of SHOULD as equivalent to MUST but realized post-meeting that I'd meant to refer to SHALL.]
    - Philippe: consider a grammar as well.
    - Philippe: do we want the test suite as part of the core spec?  Steve: would advise against that.  Philippe: we could move the test suite tests to each of the types.  John noted that some tests are not type-specific, e.g., test re percent-encoded ':' between scheme and type.  Steve: in CycloneDX community they created a fairly decentralized regex.
    - Philippe: going forward, consider monthly triage meetings to address more-specific core spec issues/updates/clarifications (referring to the 2024-12-18 Google Meet).  Philippe has ideas about the minutes of such triage meetings, where stored and so on.
- John summarized his current work on the encoding-related core spec updating, RFC 2119/8174, creation of a companion FAQ.rst etc.
- Steve asked how our plans and progress fit into the relevant Ecma schedules.  Philippe: will get a  clear answer by the first week in January.  Steve detailed the various steps and related 2025 dates.  After March, we can make only grammatical changes, cannot alter the spec in any other fashion.  Philippe: we'll look at all of this in detail.  Streamlining the core spec should fit well with this structure: less is more.
- Steve: when is our next TC54-TG2 meeting?  January 3, 2025?  Might depend on how much work we get done between now and then.  Philippe: we'll evaluate going forward, but prefers to keep the current schedule as is if possible.
- The meeting was adjourned.
