<img src="https://tc54.org/images/ecma.svg" align="right" height="70" alt="Ecma logo" /> <!-- markdownlint-disable-line MD041 -->

# Agenda for the seventh meeting of Ecma TC54-TG2 on 2024-11-22

- **Host**: Remote
- **Dates and times**:
    - 14:00 to 15:00 UTC
      - 16:00 to 17:00 CEST (Europe/Brussels)
      - 10:00 to 11:00 EDT (America/New_York)
      - 07:00 to 08:00 PDT (America/Los Angeles)
      - 23:00 to 00:00 JST (Tokyo, Japan)
- **Attendee information**:
  - https://meet.google.com/ayu-mpvf-ycw
  - [Meeting invite](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/event?action=TEMPLATE&tmeid=NXVqbW9mMDMzaDVuZmlsMDdsZWZsMm9kNXVfMjAyNDEwMjVUMTQwMDAwWiBjX2Q4YjE1NDIwZGZmMTdiNzk1OWUyOWE1MWFlMzI0MDk1MWNiZTM4ZGIxZGFlNDU5NzJhODVjOWE3MTEyMDQyMDVAZw&tmsrc=c_d8b15420dff17b7959e29a51ae3240951cbe38db1dae45972a85c9a711204205%40group.calendar.google.com&scp=ALL)

## Agenda items
- Opening, welcome, and roll call (Chair)
- Review last call minutes: https://github.com/Ecma-TC54/tg2/blob/main/meetings/2024-11-08.md
- Update on list of issues and PRs for Ecma spec (John):
https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1H2QAcADLaMNgcR5BMK7bQxzH5D3X-SdO/
- Steve: What is needed to put into the Ecma spec?

## Attendees
- Philippe Ombredanne, creator of PURL, Lead maintainer of AboutCode, TC54-TG2 convener
- Steve Springett, OWASP Foundation / ServiceNow
- Jannis Hermanns, Apple
- Matt Rutkowski, IBM
- Dustin Ingram
- Adam Herzog, AboutCode
- John Horan, AboutCode

## Notes
- The meeting is being recorded.
- Intro by Philippe, preliminary matters, proposed agenda
- Attendees commented on topics they’d like to discuss today.
- Minutes from last meeting: approved
- Steve: discussed items we’ll need for the Ecma documentation.
    - History of Package-URL
        - adam: we can summarize this blog post: https://nexb.com/purl-universal-software-package-identification/
    - When does a piece of code conform to the PURL specification?
    - Philippe: we also need to discuss the logistics of the spec doc.
- Philippe shared the current Google Sheet of the open issues and PRs and walked the attendees through several examples of issues, labels and related matters.
    - Big issues for the spec:
        - Encoding
        - Go/golang – includes a proposal for a new ‘go’ type.  Philippe summarized the major topics involved in addressing the proposal, e.g., Go module vs. Go package. See https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/pull/338.
    - Philippe summarized the workflow we’re using.  One goal: merge as early as possible and create a new issue(s) where needed.
- Philippe: goal for the core spec: Q1, ideally in January 2025.
- Steve: do we have a list of priorities we all can use to contribute?  Philippe: yes – the Google Sheet has a 'Priority' column and an 'Ecma spec' column in the 'issues' and 'pull_requests' sheets that identify the highest priority at the moment.
- The meeting was adjourned.
