<img src="https://tc54.org/images/ecma.svg" align="right" height="70" alt="Ecma logo" /> <!-- markdownlint-disable-line MD041 -->

# Agenda for the fifth meeting of Ecma TC54-TG2 on 2024-11-08

- **Host**: Remote
- **Dates and times**:
    - 14:00 to 15:00 UTC
      - 16:00 to 17:00 CEST (Europe/Brussels)
      - 10:00 to 11:00 EDT (America/New_York)
      - 07:00 to 08:00 PDT (America/Los Angeles)
      - 23:00 to 00:00 JST (Tokyo, Japan)
- **Attendee information**:
  - https://meet.google.com/ayu-mpvf-ycw
  - [Meeting invite](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/event?action=TEMPLATE&tmeid=NXVqbW9mMDMzaDVuZmlsMDdsZWZsMm9kNXVfMjAyNDEwMjVUMTQwMDAwWiBjX2Q4YjE1NDIwZGZmMTdiNzk1OWUyOWE1MWFlMzI0MDk1MWNiZTM4ZGIxZGFlNDU5NzJhODVjOWE3MTEyMDQyMDVAZw&tmsrc=c_d8b15420dff17b7959e29a51ae3240951cbe38db1dae45972a85c9a711204205%40group.calendar.google.com&scp=ALL)

## Agenda items
- Opening, welcome, and roll call (Chair)
- Review last call minutes: https://github.com/Ecma-TC54/tg2/blob/main/meetings/2024-10-25.md
- Update on list of issues and PRs for Ecma spec (John):
https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1H2QAcADLaMNgcR5BMK7bQxzH5D3X-SdO/

## Attendees
- Philippe Ombredanne, creator of PURL, Lead maintainer of AboutCode, TC54-TG2 convener
- Jan Kowalleck, OWASP, member of TC54
- Salve J. Nilsen, CPAN Security Group, observer
- Olle E. Johansson, OWASP, invited expert TC54
- Adam Herzog, AboutCode
- John Horan, AboutCode
- Dennis Clark, AboutCode

## Notes
- The meeting is being recorded.
- Intro by Philippe, preliminary matters, proposed agenda
- Minutes from last meeting: approved
- Salve introduced himself.  Question: re vers, are we able to specify the schema being used?
- Re the backlog of issues and PRs in the PURL spec repo
  - Philippe described the background of the planned review process to clear the issue/PR backlog.  Last meeting we agreed we’d start with those concerning the core spec as opposed, e.g., to PURL types (though there is overlap).
  - John summarized the most recent vetting reflected in the issues and PR worksheets of the Google Sheet workbook and invited questions and comments.
  - Philippe shared his screen and walked the participants through some examples of entries in the Google Sheet, starting with the issue re private registries (issue 15).
  - Olle added his observations re the discussion of authorities in a PURL and added a suggestion to the issue re clarifying text for the issue (15).  He also suggested that a new ‘backlog’ label could be useful.
  - Jan shared the link to the ReadTheDocs
  - Philippe discussed how the repository_url qualifier can be used for private registries and added a comment to issue 15.  He also suggested adding labels for priorities to the open issues and PRs (note that priorities are already reflected in the Google Sheet).
  - Re issue 154, Jan, Olle, Philippe and Salve discussed aspects of the OmniBOR project and how it relates (if at all) to the PURL spec.
- Re vers
  - Salve: asked about the overall goals of the vers scheme.
  - Philippe: vers is semantically the same as SemVer.  The vers spec will be addressed after we finish the PURL spec.  We want to support all the different schema types and multiple language-specific implementations.
  - Olle: an option for vers versioning would be interesting; he shared related experience with Koala.
  - Philippe: the Google Play approach is a good versioning approach: 1, 2, 3 etc.
  - Salve: CPAN has an approach re dependency resolution.  Re vers, knowing what versions (of dependencies) work with a particular package is invaluable information.
  - Philippe: one vers goal: how to combine (and convey the relationship between) a PURL and a vers.  Re dependencies, PURL and vers could be a good way to convey the relationship.
  - Salve: this is a problem that will have to be solved, and will be important from the perspective of the package maintainers re the usefulness of PURL and vers.  BTW, the frequent need to repeat dependencies because they occur in more than one package is a source of concern – simplification would be welcome and perhaps necessary.
