<img src="https://tc54.org/images/ecma.svg" align="right" height="70" alt="Ecma logo" /> <!-- markdownlint-disable-line MD041 -->

# Agenda for the twenty-fourth meeting of Ecma TC54-TG2 on 2025-08-29

- **Host**: Remote
- **Dates and times**:
    - 14:00 to 15:00 UTC
    - 16:00 to 17:00 CEST (Europe/Brussels)
    - 10:00 to 11:00 EDT (America/New_York)
    - 07:00 to 08:00 PDT (America/Los Angeles)
    - 23:00 to 00:00 JST (Tokyo, Japan)
- **Attendee information**:
    - https://meet.google.com/ryq-aimn-ghd

## Agenda items
- Opening, welcome, and roll call (Chair)
- Review last call minutes: https://github.com/Ecma-TC54/tg2/blob/main/meetings/2025-08-15.md
- Ecma standard - Section 6/7 document format

## Attendees
- Philippe Ombredanne, creator of PURL, Lead maintainer of AboutCode, TC54-TG2 convener
- Steve Springett, OWASP Foundation / ServiceNow
- Michael Herzog, AboutCode
- Salve J. Nilsen, CPANSec
- John Horan, AboutCode
- Matt Rutkowski, IBM

## Notes
- The meeting is being recorded.  Our code of conduct applies to this meeting.  https://github.com/Ecma-TC54/tg2/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md.
- Intro by Philippe, preliminary matters, proposed agenda.
- Minutes from last meeting: approved.
- In addition to the agenda topics above, attendees commented on additional topics they’d like to discuss today.
    - Michael: see the agenda.
- Summary
  - Philippe Ombredanne highlighted the merging of the CVE schema by the quality working group and its presentation to the CVE quality working group.
  - Michael Herzog and Steve Springett discussed reformatting document sections six and seven using json-schema-for-humans, removing property tables, and refining test structures.
  - The team also addressed the standard's source of truth, with Steve Springett proposing Ecma markup as the single source, and Michael Herzog expressing concerns about managing changes in large HTML files.
  - Michael Herzog and Matt Rutkowski discussed website and documentation strategies, including potential automation for change tracking and addressing the loss of website interns and the need for community support for website development, hosting, and funding.
- **Meeting Formalities and Announcements** Philippe Ombredanne reminded attendees that the meeting is subject to Ecma rules and a code of conduct (00:01:22). The minutes of the prior meeting were approved.  Philippe Ombredanne also announced that the CVE quality working group ([https://github.com/CVEProject/quality-workgroup](https://github.com/CVEProject/quality-workgroup)) has merged PURL into the CVE schema ([https://github.com/CVEProject/cve-schema/pull/407](https://github.com/CVEProject/cve-schema/pull/407)), and that they had presented to the CVE quality working group about PURL validation, noting strong interest and offers of assistance from the original creators of CPE (00:02:16).
- **CVE Schema and PURL Validation** Michael Herzog acknowledged the importance of the CVE schema merge, noting it was previously inactive (00:03:21). Philippe Ombredanne confirmed that there were no concerns raised regarding the standard reference and that the group is fully aligned with Ecma’s decision process (00:04:33).
- **Document Reformatting with json-schema-for-humans** Michael Herzog explained that he and John are working on reformatting sections six and seven of the document using json-schema-for-humans ([https://github.com/coveooss/json-schema-for-humans](https://github.com/coveooss/json-schema-for-humans)), noting section seven, which deals with tests, is more complex due to the "all of" keyword (00:00:00). Steve Springett confirmed that they will prepend "number seven" to all headings in section seven, as previously discussed (00:05:30).
- **Revisions to Document Formatting** Steve Springett indicated that property tables would be removed from the document, particularly those for "type required additional properties," and that the "pattern deprecated" and "definition" columns would also be eliminated (00:06:25). Michael Herzog confirmed that there is no use of "pattern" throughout the entire schema (00:08:18).
- **Reference Implementation and Test Structure** Michael Herzog clarified that the reference implementation for the schema is the schema itself, and Steve Springett confirmed this approach is suitable. Michael Herzog also explained the manual addition of an introductory section for the "all of" keyword and the introduction of two columns for test requirements, including a descriptive title for each test, which Steve Springett found acceptable (00:09:40).
- **Property Breadcrumbs and Document Detail** Michael Herzog explained that property breadcrumbs would be retained in the document's sections to serve as delimiters, especially since there are no further headings in those sections (00:11:02). They also discussed that the document would become simpler as more content is converted into text, detailing how property values cover components down to subpath (00:12:06).
- **json-schema-for-humans Limitations** Steve Springett commented that json-schema-for-humans is excellent for interactive schema navigation but is not suitable for human-readable documents due to its markdown limitations. Steve Springett also mentioned that CycloneDX uses its own tool to automatically resolve "all of" keywords rather than presenting them for manual interpretation (00:13:18).
- **Standard Source of Truth** Steve Springett proposed that the Ecma markup (EC Markup) should become the single source of truth for the standard once the document is converted to avoid manual synchronization efforts between the Package-URL repository and the Ecma repository. Michael Herzog expressed concerns about the difficulty of managing changes via pull requests against a long HTML file like \`spec.html\` (00:15:46).
- **Community and Ecma Standard Alignment** Steve Springett clarified that the JavaScript specification, which is hundreds of pages, is managed using \`spec.html\` with frequent pull requests, and that for Package-URL, the JSON schema serves as the source of truth, with a tool automatically generating EC markup from it (00:17:01). This approach minimizes the need for direct pull requests against the Ecma repository (00:17:49).
- **Document Coordination and Maintenance** Michael Herzog highlighted the need to coordinate changes for sections like character encoding and permitted characters, which are part of both the community and Ecma standards (00:20:30). Steve Springett agreed that these sections should be maintained in both places, noting they already exist in two locations in the generated output (00:21:29).
- **Website and Documentation Strategy** Michael Herzog explained that the plan is to have a "docs" section on the PURL website with a logical table of contents structure, similar to how the specification is currently organized (00:24:39). Michael Herzog stated that elements currently in the repository that are Ecma-specific, such as conformance documents, would be removed and maintained solely on the Ecma side (00:25:32).
- **Automating Change Tracking** Matt Rutkowski suggested automating the creation of issues in the Ecma repository whenever a pull request is merged in the PURL repository, particularly for shared files that impact the standard. Michael Herzog agreed that community members are more likely to submit changes via the PURL repository than the Ecma HTML file (00:26:57).
- **User Experience with Documentation** Michael Herzog noted that most users would likely prefer to access documentation through the interactive website rather than a static PDF or a generated Markdown file within the repository (00:28:56) (00:55:06). Steve Springett confirmed that CycloneDX 1.7 will be the first release to include online documentation on its website alongside the PDF (00:34:06).
- **Sections 6 and 7 Completion** Michael Herzog plans to finalize sections six and seven manually over the weekend and deliver them to Steve Springett by Monday or Tuesday. They decided this manual approach would be most useful because their current output is an intermediate deliverable that Steve Springett will transform into EC markup (00:35:51).
- **Reference Updates** Steve Springett mentioned that the Ecma repository already contains changes to references, specifically replacing Wikipedia links with official references for ASCII (00:36:52). Michael Herzog agreed to update the PURL repository with these official references and to add two pending references: RFC 2119 and JSON schema draft 7 (00:38:07).
- **Schema Stability and PURL Type Management** Michael Herzog noted that the schemas have remained stable, with no proposed changes to the schema itself, and that all activity has been around applying the schema to different PURL types (00:39:45). Michael Herzog outlined a simple process for adding a PURL type, which involves submitting an issue and a pull request, with type documentation being updated automatically (00:40:46).
- **AI Tools for Inconsistency Detection** Michael Herzog mentioned that Prabhu Subramanian has been using AI tools to identify inconsistencies in PURL type definitions and tests, submitting pull requests and issues (00:41:47). Matt Rutkowski, having introduced Prabhu to OWASP, expressed strong interest in Prabhu's AI-generated findings (00:43:01).
- **Managing AI-Generated Contributions** Michael Herzog noted that Prabhu has been receptive to feedback, providing more granular issues and pull requests instead of large, comprehensive ones (00:44:48) (00:49:39). While recognizing the value of AI tools for "sniff tests" in CI, Matt Rutkowski emphasized that any AI-generated output should be championed by a human (00:45:45).
- **Website Interns and Hosting** Matt Rutkowski informed the team about the loss of website interns and the need for the community to take over future development and issue resolution for the website (00:50:28). Michael Herzog acknowledged the need to address hosting and funding for the static website, suggesting AboutCode might cover the costs or utilize existing PURL grants (00:52:22).
- **Website Security and Deployment** Matt Rutkowski addressed security concerns regarding GitHub Pages, explaining that granular SSL would require a separate hosting provider, but noted that the website's JavaScript is minimal, making it primarily a static site (00:51:12) (00:53:14). Michael Herzog plans to create an issue to discuss deployment options and aims to have the website live well before the December deadline, as it will be the primary way most users consume the information (00:55:06).
- The meeting was adjourned.
