<img src="https://tc54.org/images/ecma.svg" align="right" height="70" alt="Ecma logo" /> <!-- markdownlint-disable-line MD041 -->

# Agenda for the twentieth meeting of Ecma TC54-TG2 on 2025-07-02

- **Host**: Remote
- **Dates and times**:
    - 15:00 to 16:00 UTC
    - 17:00 to 18:00 CEST (Europe/Brussels)
    - 11:00 to 12:00 EDT (America/New_York)
    - 08:00 to 09:00 PDT (America/Los Angeles)
    - 00:00 to 01:00 JST (Tokyo, Japan)
- **Attendee information**:
    - https://meet.google.com/vwc-duqp-hcm

## Agenda items
- Opening, welcome, and roll call (Chair)
- Review last call minutes:  https://github.com/Ecma-TC54/tg2/blob/main/meetings/2025-06-20.md
- Date for Ecma Standard milestone missed - new target is July 7
- Ecma standard document (ask Steve - where are the doc source files kept for the ECMA-424 doc)
- Documentation organization
    - CDX projects tend to use very long README files, some RTD and custom plus the SBOM Guide
    - Do we use RTD/rST/Sphinx or md/MkDocs (use RTD theme as default) ?
    - Or put Docs on website (Docusaurus example at: https://relay.dev/)
- Re-organization of the purl-spec "code"
    - Separate folders for /purl and /vers
    - Separate folder for /purl-types?
    - Tests to be sub-folder of /purl or /vers
- Philippe: Review milestone
    - Check out JSON Schema

## Attendees
- Philippe Ombredanne, creator of PURL, Lead maintainer of AboutCode, TC54-TG2 convener
- Steve Springett, OWASP Foundation / ServiceNow
- Michael Herzog, AboutCode
- Matt Rutkowski, IBM
- John Horan, AboutCode

## Notes
- The meeting is being recorded.  Our code of conduct applies to this meeting.  https://github.com/Ecma-TC54/tg2/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md.
- Intro by Philippe, preliminary matters, proposed agenda.
- Minutes from last meeting: approved.
- In addition to the agenda topics above, attendees commented on additional topics they’d like to discuss today.
    - John: nothing atm
    - Michael: already in agenda
    - Steve: timelines and when can we start doc generation
    - Matt: website
    - Philippe: review current milestone for the standard, and JSON Schema for PURL types
- Summary:
    - Philippe opened the meeting by confirming the previous meeting notes were approved and introducing the agenda, which included a PURL standard milestone (PURL Ecma-Standard v0.90) update, issues and pull requests reframing, and updates to the JSON Schema for PURL types.
    - Michael, Philippe, and John set July 7 as the new target date to complete the standard, while Matt and Michael discussed strategies for community outreach and documentation organization.
    - Philippe presented updates to the JSON Schema for PURL types, and Steve proposed two levels of conformance, with discussions among Steve, Michael, and Philippe on how the test suite would drive conformance and the use of the term "registered" in the schema.
- **Reviewing Meeting Notes Process** Michael commented on the process for reviewing meeting notes: the current approach is to lightly edit the Gemini transcript for obvious errors, rather than undertaking extensive human editing. The Gemini summary and notes are already quite good; the goal is to streamline the work involved while still providing detailed information, including timestamps, from the video (00:01:47).
- **"Standard" Milestone Update** Michael provided an update on the standard milestone.  The team, including Philippe and John, had narrowed down active items to the PURL type issue and pull request. Michael noted that the June 30 deadline was not met and proposed July 7 as the new target date to complete the standard (00:04:01).
- **Issue and Pull Request Reframing** Michael noted that many issues covered multiple topics, and we're asking contributors to reframe these to separate the content for the PURL standard from the rest of the specification (00:05:07). Michael also encouraged the use of GitHub discussions for open topics rather than action-oriented items to better manage conversations (00:04:01).
- **Standard Document Structure** Michael discussed the structure of the standard document; he has created a placeholder document borrowing from the CycloneDX structure (00:05:07). https://docs.google.com/document/d/1nEx8e7hPCEblqRKRVXUPkRPMZiiDZmnq  He noted the need for clarity on where to maintain the standard text for editing and commenting, particularly for normative sections like "what is a PURL," and asked about the organization of sections to avoid broad issues and pull requests (00:06:14).
- **Location of Standard Text and HTML Maintenance** Steve confirmed that the text of the standard will reside in a `spec.html` file within a temporary repository, which will change once an ECMA number is assigned (00:07:17).  https://github.com/Ecma-TC54/ECMA-xxx-PURL  Michael raised concerns about maintaining the data directly in HTML for community comments and changes, suggesting using RST files or similar mechanisms to break out sections for easier processing into HTML (00:08:09). Steve clarified that for CycloneDX, the human-readable specification is autogenerated from the JSON Schema, and for narrative sections, individual HTML files are merged during a build process, but markdown or RST cannot be used due to conversion limitations with ECmarkup (00:09:01).
- **Documentation and Website Structure** Michael raised the need to reorganize files in the GitHub repository for better manageability, specifically concerning website and documentation – he and John are working on the restructuring (00:10:56). Michael asked for input on how to handle documentation – considering options like a website with embedded documentation or a dedicated documentation page – and how the repo files should be organized to match these targets, noting the complexity of a multi-level table of contents (00:13:05).
- **Website and Documentation Strategy** Matt outlined the plan for the website: it will align with the CycloneDX theme and general layout, borrowing color themes and other elements. Matt emphasized focusing on tangible aspects like PURL types, showing examples, using .md whenever possible.  Pandoc can help conversion when needed – bash scripts.  This can all naturally fit into Docusaurus, which works well with markdown.  (00:14:15) (00:15:50).
- **Documentation Organization and Community Engagement** Michael, Philippe, and Steve discussed the need for better organization of documentation, particularly for "how-to" and narrative content, given the abundance of information spread across issues and pull requests (00:19:13). Michael suggested creating separate folders for PURL and VERS due to their distinct nature, while Philippe cautioned against excessive nesting (00:21:50). Michael also highlighted the importance of a triage plan for open items to re-engage contributors and facilitate closure, emphasizing proactive engagement with incoming questions and discussions (00:22:48).
- **Community Outreach and Engagement Strategy** Matt and Michael discussed strategies for community outreach, including compiling a list of individuals representing different language and package communities to solicit feedback and reviews (00:24:52). Proposed approach: dedicated mailing lists and a focus on major implementations to achieve critical mass and encourage broader adoption – and a clear release vehicle and consistent feedback mechanisms would be crucial. Michael noted that the term "outreach" is preferred over "marketing" to reflect the non-profit nature of the initiative (00:25:43) (00:27:20).
- **Changelogs and Automation** Michael mentioned the challenge of creating a comprehensive changelog for version 0.90 due to its amorphous history, noting that changelogs can be maintained once a milestone is established (00:28:04). Matt: AI could assist in generating the changelogs by identifying commits and changes, automating releases. Michael also noted the current use of Gemini summaries and transcripts for meeting notes due to their quality (00:28:46).
- **PURL Types JSON Schema Updates** Philippe presented updates to the JSON Schema for PURL types, including simplifying the index to an array of types and flattening definitions to reduce nesting (00:31:06). Philippe has also refined property definitions, clarified the use of ECMA 262 regex for patterns, and suggested using the "allOf" keyword in JSON schema to avoid repetition in property definitions (00:32:35) (00:35:47).
- **Conformance and Test Suite Structure** Steve proposed two levels of conformance: (1) a base level that can be automated using the document's properties and (2) an additional level considering human-readable instructions specific to each PURL type (00:38:05). Philippe demonstrated how the test suite could become a top-level schema to drive conformance, validating both general and PURL type-specific tests (00:39:21). Steve recommended making the test suite a sub-schema within the JSON file, allowing it to evolve independently of the main PURL type schema, similar to CycloneDX's handling of SPDX IDs (00:42:30).
- **"Registered" Keyword and Test Suite Details** Michael requested replacing the term "known" with "registered" as applied to PURL types wherever it appears in the schema to avoid ambiguity (00:43:30). Philippe elaborated on the test suite, explaining that tests would clarify input (string or object) and expected output (decoded components or canonical PURL), with a flag for invalid cases – simplifies testing by removing ambiguity (00:40:56) (00:46:31).
- **Closure on JSON Schema Updates** Philippe expressed confidence that the JSON Schema updates, including implementing "allOf" for properties and extracting the test suite into a sub-schema, would be ready for closure in the next day or so and would undergo review from Steve, Matt R., and recently invited helpers like Piotr Karwasz (log4j) and Matt Donoughe (00:50:07). Philippe will also ask Matt D. if he's willing to share or move to the PURL org his `purl-survey` code/repo that runs multiple PURL implementations on the test suite.  https://github.com/phylum-dev/purl-survey  He/we will reach out to each implementer. Philippe also mentioned efforts to survey existing PURL implementations to identify inconsistencies using the new test suite, with the long-term goal of integrating this into continuous integration for validation (00:51:06).
- The meeting was adjourned.
