<img src="https://tc54.org/images/ecma.svg" align="right" height="70" alt="Ecma logo" /> <!-- markdownlint-disable-line MD041 -->

# Agenda for the twenty-second meeting of Ecma TC54-TG2 on 2025-08-01

- **Host**: Remote
- **Dates and times**:
    - 14:00 to 15:00 UTC
    - 16:00 to 17:00 CEST (Europe/Brussels)
    - 10:00 to 11:00 EDT (America/New_York)
    - 07:00 to 08:00 PDT (America/Los Angeles)
    - 23:00 to 00:00 JST (Tokyo, Japan)
- **Attendee information**:
    - https://meet.google.com/ryq-aimn-ghd

## Agenda items
- Opening, welcome, and roll call (Chair)
- Review last call minutes: https://github.com/Ecma-TC54/tg2/blob/main/meetings/2025-07-18.md

## Attendees
- Philippe Ombredanne, creator of PURL, Lead maintainer of AboutCode, TC54-TG2 convener
- Steve Springett, OWASP Foundation / ServiceNow
- Michael Herzog, AboutCode
- Salve J. Nilsen, CPANSec
- Nisha Kumar (Oracle)
- Elizabeth Mattijsen
- Matt Rutkowski, IBM
- John Horan, AboutCode

## Notes
- The meeting is being recorded.  Our code of conduct applies to this meeting.  https://github.com/Ecma-TC54/tg2/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md.
- Intro by Philippe, preliminary matters, proposed agenda.
- Minutes from last meeting: approved.
- In addition to the agenda topics above, attendees commented on additional topics theyâ€™d like to discuss today.
    - Salve: minor issues in raku
    - Steve: status of the conformance section, e.g., has text been drafted; PURL type definitions
    - Michael: items already in the agenda
- Summary:
    - Philippe Ombredanne opened the meeting by addressing logistics and the code of conduct, followed by approval of the previous meeting's minutes.
    - Michael Herzog detailed the ongoing restructuring of the purl-spec repository, which involves splitting off a vers-spec repository and organizing documentation into more granular MD files, with the goal of wrapping up major updates by the end of next week.
    - Key topics discussed include the schema and test sections for the standard, documentation structure feedback from Steve Springett, and the timeline for the purl-spec reorganization.
    - Additionally, discussions covered addressing nuances in the spec, PURL type and test definitions, and component requirements, with Steve Springett suggesting that the conformance section of the standard should require passing all "base" tests.
    - The meeting also addressed the version field and granularity, defining requirements categories (strict vs. lax), and vers-spec licensing, with Michael Herzog proposing CC-BY-4.0 or Apache as better alternatives for non-code documentation.
    - Elizabeth Mattijsen raised issues encountered with package URLs and VERS in the Raku programming language, and they discussed the implications of including null fields in JSON output and explicitness in test case fields.
    - Finally, Philippe Ombredanne raised concerns about integrating Go language specs into the standard.
- **Meeting Logistics and Agenda** Philippe Ombredanne opened the meeting, reminding everyone about the code of conduct and that the meeting was being recorded and would have a published transcript and video. The running notes link (https://docs.google.com/document/d/1c404cEQ1ErfO5wwuuKeE8AYKJ2k1NmFNvhRmuyRkH3k) was shared with attendees (00:00:00). The minutes from the previous call were approved as there were no objections. Michael Herzog had already posted three agenda items, and Salve Nilsen mentioned minor issues encountered with package URLs and VERS in the Raku programming language, hoping Elizabeth Mattijsen (who had not joined the call at the time) would join to provide commentary (00:01:37). Steve Springett inquired about the status of the conformance section and the PURL type definition text (00:03:07).
- **purl-spec Restructuring and Documentation** Michael Herzog detailed the ongoing restructuring of the purl-spec repo, including splitting off a vers-spec repo, with the goal of wrapping up major updates by the end of next week (00:05:48). This work involves error checking and organizing documentation, breaking down large RST files into more granular MD files for specific topics like "build PURL" and "parse PURL" (00:06:48). A subdirectory named "Ecma" is proposed to house documents corresponding to parts of the Ecma standard, aiming to make it easier for contributors to make changes to individual documents (00:07:59).
- **Schema and Test Sections** Michael Herzog plans to draft a separate section 7 for the PURL test schema, which would be part of the standard (00:09:11) (00:22:32). Philippe Ombredanne explained that the schema defines what a PURL type is and what a test for PURLs is, ensuring everything is JSON-based to remove the authors' "artistic license" from definitions (00:20:33). The current proposal is that the schema for defining what is a test (purl-test.schema.json) would be part of the standard (00:22:32).
- **Documentation Structure Feedback** Steve Springett expressed concern that the Ecma documentation and other documentation could become out of sync over time due to duplicated information, though Michael Herzog clarified that the Ecma documents are intended to be succinct, while other documents would offer a more expansive view for a broader audience (00:11:15). Philippe Ombredanne liked the structure, and Michael Herzog confirmed that root files would remain, albeit at the bottom of the list (00:14:09).
- **Timeline for purl-spec Reorganization** Michael Herzog stated that the move of files and directories for the purl-spec reorganization is planned for the current week, with the goal of releasing version 0.90. Following this, the community will be asked for feedback over the next few weeks (00:16:53). They also plan to triage PURL type additions, prioritizing those actively worked on or from popular package repositories (00:17:55).
- **Addressing Nuances and Spec Issues** Michael Herzog explained that the focus is on addressing fundamental issues that would prevent the spec from working, rather than over-specification. An example given was the decision to make namespace optional to keep the spec simple while accommodating different interpretations. The aim is to determine by November or December if a plan for version 1.1 is needed for mid-next year, with a philosophy of keeping the spec as simple as possible and adding features incrementally (00:18:52).
- **PURL Type and Test Definitions** Philippe Ombredanne demonstrated the structure of PURL type definitions, using "cargo" as an example, showing how it describes package types, repositories, and component definitions (00:20:33). He also showed the test suite structure, with "base" tests for core spec conformance and "advanced" tests for more sophisticated parsers (00:23:53). Steve Springett expressed that the conformance section of the standard should require passing all "base" tests (00:27:35).
- **PURL Component Definitions and Requirements** Steve Springett raised a point about explicitly stating which PURL components are required in the schema, particularly "name," for automation purposes, as it is implicitly required but not explicitly stated (00:27:35) (00:30:48). Philippe Ombredanne agreed that clarity is important, suggesting that if a component, like "name," is always required, it should be explicitly marked as such in the schema (00:29:13) (00:31:58).
- **Version Field and Granularity** Philippe Ombredanne and Steve Springett discussed whether the "version" field should be optional or required. They concluded that making it optional allows for greater use cases, particularly with VERS, even if a versionless PURL might not be fully resolvable to actual artifacts in all cases. They also agreed to add a comment in the core spec about PURLs without versions (00:32:58).
- **Defining Requirements Categories (Strict vs. Lax)** Nisha Kumar proposed dividing requirements into categories like "strict" or "lax" for conformance checkers, suggesting that this would allow tools to configure behavior based on context. Philippe Ombredanne clarified that their current "required, optional, prohibited" enumeration is different, but acknowledged the concept of strict and lax parsers/builders as relating to "base" and "advanced" test groups (00:35:53). Michael Herzog noted that the current focus is on keeping the standard minimal for Ecma evaluation, with more complex issues deferred to the spec and use cases (00:38:59).
- **VERS Spec** Philippe Ombredanne provided an update on the new vers-spec repository, noting it has been split into its own repo with historical context preserved (00:40:01).
- **Licensing** Michael Herzog raised the issue of the spec's license, stating that MIT is not suitable for specifications and proposed CC-BY-4.0 or Apache as better alternatives for non-code documentation, with Ecma's royalty-free patent license covering the core standard (00:41:42) (00:45:30). Philippe Ombredanne supported Apache due to its patent support and wider recognition compared to the Community Specification License (00:43:08).
- **Website and Outreach** Michael Herzog noted a pull request for the initial website was targeted at the purl-spec repo but the plan is for the website to be at the broader parent package-url level to encompass both purl-spec and vers-spec (00:49:25). Philippe Ombredanne suggested discussing this on the next community call to avoid slowing down Matt Rutkowski and the IBM interns who are working on the website (and are also preparing proposed logos) (00:50:25). Michael Herzog also shared that he reached out to SPDX to update them on the Ecma standardization work, as PURL information was included in SPDX 3.0.1 (00:47:15).
- **Raku Implementation Issues and Versioning** Elizabeth Mattijsen, working on Raku programming language support for CycloneDX SBOM and PURL/VERS specs, shared that she found some issues with the spec but understood it was in flux. She raised a question about having both a version and a VERS (version range) specified for a PURL, and if they should be in accordance (00:51:50) (00:54:33). Philippe Ombredanne clarified that VERS stores an expression resolving to multiple versions, used in vulnerability reports or dependency ranges, and agreed that if both are present, the version should fall within the specified VERS range (00:55:44).  Philippe Ombredanne confirmed that the qualifier key for VERS is already specified in the Ecma standard and is mutually exclusive with the version component. On reconsideration, this means that when you have a VERS, you don't include a version, and vice-versa â€“ a PURL cannot have both a VERS qualifier and a version component, and that's something we want to include in the spec (00:58:20).
- **Handling Null Fields in JSON** Elizabeth Mattijsen questioned the inclusion of null fields in JSON output, suggesting they could be omitted for readability (00:59:39). Matt Rutkowski argued for retaining intentionally empty fields in the specification for code readability and to prevent programming errors (01:00:55). Philippe Ombredanne acknowledged both perspectives, noting that while omitting nulls is his personal preference as a programmer, the current approach of including them simplifies consumption for users (01:01:59).
- **Explicitness in Test Case Fields** Philippe Ombredanne explained that certain fields, such as `expected_failure`, are always present in test cases, even with default values, to ensure explicitness and simplify processing for consumers. They noted that this design choice makes it easier to read and process the test data, as all expected fields are consistently present (01:05:19).
- **Go Language Specifics in Standard** Philippe Ombredanne raised concerns about integrating Go language specifics into the standard due to its unique characteristics compared to other languages, specifically regarding how package names and namespaces are handled. The discussion about whether to include a subpath for Go modules or adopt a different approach to interpreting names and namespaces will be revisited in an upcoming community meeting (01:06:30). Elizabeth Mattijsen also questioned the casing rules for namespaces in the spec, noting that Go paths are case-sensitive and have unusual conventions for handling uppercase letters (01:08:16).
- The meeting was adjourned.
