<img src="https://tc54.org/images/ecma.svg" align="right" height="70" alt="Ecma logo" /> <!-- markdownlint-disable-line MD041 -->

# Agenda for the twenty-fifth meeting of Ecma TC54-TG2 on 2025-09-12

- **Host**: Remote
- **Dates and times**:
    - 14:00 to 15:00 UTC
    - 16:00 to 17:00 CEST (Europe/Brussels)
    - 10:00 to 11:00 EDT (America/New_York)
    - 07:00 to 08:00 PDT (America/Los Angeles)
    - 23:00 to 00:00 JST (Tokyo, Japan)
- **Attendee information**:
    - https://meet.google.com/ryq-aimn-ghd

## Agenda items
- Opening, welcome, and roll call (Chair)
- Review last call minutes: https://github.com/Ecma-TC54/tg2/blob/main/meetings/2025-08-29.md
- Ecma standard - Section 6/7 document format

## Attendees
- Philippe Ombredanne, creator of PURL, Lead maintainer of AboutCode, TC54-TG2 convener
- Steve Springett, OWASP Foundation / ServiceNow
- Michael Herzog, AboutCode
- John Horan, AboutCode
- Matt Rutkowski, IBM

## Notes
- The meeting is being recorded.  Our code of conduct applies to this meeting.  https://github.com/Ecma-TC54/tg2/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md.
- Intro by Philippe, preliminary matters, proposed agenda.
- Minutes from last meeting: approved.
- In addition to the agenda topics above, attendees commented on additional topics theyâ€™d like to discuss today.
    - Michael: draft standard, website.
- Summary
  - Philippe Ombredanne opened the meeting and the minutes from the last call were approved after no objections were raised.
  - Michael Herzog and Philippe Ombredanne discussed the inclusion of the PURL type schema in the standard to ensure unified definitions of package types, which Michael Herzog agreed was important for guiding implementers.
  - Michael Herzog provided an update on the website prototype, and Matt Rutkowski explained the website build process and artifacts.
  - Steve Springett, Philippe Ombredanne, and Michael Herzog voted unanimously to send the standard to TC54 immediately.
- **Meeting Opening and Code of Conduct** Philippe Ombredanne opened the meeting of the Ecma TC54-TG2 task group, reminding everyone that the meeting adheres to the technical committee's code of conduct. They also mentioned that links to the code of conduct and Google documents for running notes were shared in the chat (00:00:00).
- **Review of Last Call Minutes** Philippe Ombredanne presented the meeting minutes from the last call for review. They asked for any objections to the minutes, and with no objections raised, the minutes were considered approved (00:00:00).
- **Agenda Affirmation** A quick roll call was conducted to affirm the agenda. Michael Herzog suggested focusing on the draft standard (00:01:31).
- **Discussion on PURL Type Schema Inclusion** Michael Herzog initiated a discussion about including the PURL type schema as part of the standard, noting that concerns were raised by Jan Kowalleck, who was not present (00:01:31). Philippe Ombredanne emphasized the importance of including the schema to remove "artistic interpretation" in package type contributions and facilitate unified definitions (00:04:12).
- **Importance of Schema Standardization** Philippe Ombredanne further explained that the schema is crucial for ensuring a unified definition of package types, citing examples like npm and crates.io. They also stated that there are no drawbacks to including the schema in the standard (00:04:12). Michael Herzog agreed that standardizing PURL type definitions is important for guiding implementers, even though further work is needed on governance for creating PURL types (00:07:04).
- **Website and Documentation Updates** Michael Herzog provided an update on the website, mentioning that a prototype was built by volunteers under Matt Rutkowski's guidance. They aim to have a basic website up soon, primarily for publishing the PURL specification to replace the old RST file format and make documentation more accessible (00:20:33) (00:29:28). Philippe Ombredanne added that the domain will be hosted at DreamHost (00:22:35).
- **Website Build Process and Artifacts** Matt Rutkowski explained that their interns had worked on Python scripts for a formal release process, not automated merges, to generate new content. However, they noted that some expected scripts and tooling might be missing from the checked-in code (00:23:35). John Horan confirmed that they had been able to build the site locally and push it to GitHub pages, and set up a personal domain for testing (00:25:22).
- **Next Steps for Ecma TG2** Steve Springett indicated that the group needs to decide on the next steps for TG2 after the PURL standard is sent to TC54, suggesting options like working on VERS or further PURL-related tasks (00:32:44). Philippe Ombredanne proposed focusing on VERS, solidifying the test schema for PURL 1.0, and addressing unmanaged packages through a new PURL type registry (00:34:54).
- **Formal Vote for TC54 Submission** Steve Springett emphasized the urgency of voting to send the standard to TC54 immediately, as the next TC54 meeting is scheduled for the following Thursday. Philippe Ombredanne and Michael Herzog both voted in favor, resulting in a unanimous decision to present the specification to TC54 (00:33:44).
- **Post-Standardization Priorities** Michael Herzog outlined key priorities post-standardization: freezing version 1.0, cleaning up documentation for the website, focusing on PURL types and their governance, and restructuring the vers-spec documentation (00:38:47). Philippe Ombredanne concurred, adding the need for rules to compare versions in vers-spec and suggesting that bringing attention to versioning complexities might lead to simplifications in the future (00:46:35).
- **Preparing for TC54 Presentation** Philippe Ombredanne offered to prepare one or two slides to recap the progress and future direction for the TC54 presentation. Steve Springett found this very useful for their chair's report to the exacom and GA (00:49:08).
- The meeting was adjourned.
