<img src="https://tc54.org/images/ecma.svg" align="right" height="70" alt="Ecma logo" /> <!-- markdownlint-disable-line MD041 -->

# Agenda for the seventeenth meeting of Ecma TC54-TG2 on 2025-05-23

- **Host**: Remote
- **Dates and times**:
    - 14:00 to 15:00 UTC
    - 16:00 to 17:00 CEST (Europe/Brussels)
    - 10:00 to 11:00 EDT (America/New_York)
    - 07:00 to 08:00 PDT (America/Los Angeles)
    - 23:00 to 00:00 JST (Tokyo, Japan)
- **Attendee information**:
    - https://meet.google.com/vwc-duqp-hcm
    - [Meeting invite](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/event?action=TEMPLATE&tmeid=NzAzNjU3ZTk3NHVzYTRsMjdnaG5jbGVkb2VfMjAyNTA1MjNUMTQwMDAwWiBjX2MwODYxYWJlYmRmNjllZjBkZmVjNjgxM2IyN2JmYzdjMjk3ZDU5MThiM2EyZTk3NmZjYTdiYmViMzg1OGE5YjNAZw&tmsrc=c_c0861abebdf69ef0dfec6813b27bfc7c297d5918b3a2e976fca7bbeb3858a9b3%40group.calendar.google.com)

## Agenda items
- Opening, welcome, and roll call (Chair)
- Review last call minutes: https://github.com/Ecma-TC54/tg2/blob/main/meetings/2025-05-09.md
- Review PRs from Immanuel Kunz:
    - add lexicographic vers scheme – https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/pull/443
    - Add semver to generic schemes – https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/pull/470

## Attendees
- Philippe Ombredanne, creator of PURL, Lead maintainer of AboutCode, TC54-TG2 convener
- Steve Springett, OWASP Foundation / ServiceNow
- Immanuel Kunz, Fraunhofer AISEC
- Jannis Hermanns, Apple
- Matt Rutkowski, IBM
- Michael Herzog, AboutCode
- John Horan, AboutCode

## Notes
- The meeting is being recorded.  Our code of conduct applies to this meeting.
- Intro by Philippe, preliminary matters, proposed agenda.
- Minutes from last meeting: approved.
- In addition to the agenda topics above, attendees commented on additional topics they’d like to discuss today.
    - Immanuel: 2 PRs already in the agenda
    - John: nothing atm
    - Michael: how is `vers` meant to be used (e.g., part of PURL? separate schema?) and some ideas re schedule, governance and decision-making
    - Steve: status of the docs to be incorporated into the Ecma documentation in time for the 2025-09-01 hard deadline to prepare for the December 2025 General Assembly
    - Jannis: nothing atm
    - Matt: yes, will pose a question or two at the end
    - Philippe: status update on the spec and related topics
- Philippe: Re Immanuel's two `vers` PRs, there are no objections to either – now on Philippe's todo list to merge.
- Philippe: Re Michael's questions regarding how `vers` is meant to be used, a PURL should have a single version in the `version` component.  `vers`, in contrast, could be used as the version-range value in a `qualifers` key-value pair.
    - We need to define and standardize the qualifier for `vers`; would like to be able to meet the September 1 deadline but that may not be realistic.  Steve: we're using `vers` in a variety of ways, e.g., product ranges that are vulnerable, or end-of-life, or a changed license, and so on.  Philippe: the spec is at https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/blob/main/VERSION-RANGE-SPEC.rst.
    - Steve: next week's Barcelona conference includes a hackathon for the Transparency Exchange API, co-sponsored by Ecma and OWASP.  We could consider something similar for `vers`, perhaps in November – `vers` would be a good candidate.  Philippe agreed.
    - Michael will update the PURL Specification Plan he's prepared (https://docs.google.com/document/d/1O6cEPE1Y3cUEmjlQOw12WiBQoUonC3yJ/edit).
- Philippe: Re status, making progress but not fast enough.  Character encoding requires more care than some might expect, given its complexity and usage.  Re the main encoding PR, seems there are no further objections.  John summarized the status of https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/pull/461 (Update "Character encoding" and related provisions) – several approvals, ideally just need one more vetting and approval and can then merge – fine-tuning can follow via 1.0.* updates.  Philippe will review over the weekend and merge the PR if he approves.
- Philippe: Re the PURL spec documentation, little has been done so far.
    - Steve noted that by September 1, the spec document needs to be prepared using Ecmarkup (https://github.com/tc39/ecmarkup), a proprietary HTML extension designed to produce output that conforms to the Ecma document standard.  We'll continue to do the spec-update drafting with .rst, which Steve explained can then be readily converted to Ecmarkup – the key is to structure the .rst in a way that meets the ECMA requirements.  Steve will forward a copy of the Ecma requirements document to Michael.
    - Michael: Has been modelling based on CycloneDX, did not know there's a requirements document, would be helpful to see – that is not the structure we have today in the .rst, will work with John on a specific recommendation for the structure, which we can discuss in a future meeting.  Philppe: has also done some research on other relevant specs.  Steve: strict adherence to Oxford English including punctuation – applies only to the actual text (e.g., descriptions), but not the spec itself.
- Philippe noted that Steve has been working on a JSON Schema to specify package types (Add Schema that defines PURL types – https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/pull/401) and offered to help; Steve said that would be appreciated, especially in the near term.
    - Philippe explained that the PURL spec will not include a definition of types – too much work, evolving too quickly, which is not compatible with the spec.  Instead, we'll have a small JSON schema to define what elements we want in a type definition, eventually moving to one small JSON schema per type.
    - We also want support for the tests, meaning have the few fields we're already using in JSON in the test.  We want this schema to be part of the spec, not the types.
- Philippe and Michael discussed the schedule.
    - Michael: concerned about the time, since Sept. 30 in the current draft (PURL Specification Plan – https://docs.google.com/document/d/1O6cEPE1Y3cUEmjlQOw12WiBQoUonC3yJ/edit) is actually Sept. 1, as Steve pointed out.  The draft also does not yet reflect the clarification that `vers` is not tied to the PURL spec schedule.  We really need to get the core spec, including the JSON Schema for PURL types, done by June 30, tagged as v0.90.
    - Michael discussed proposed schedule details, including implementation testing.  We could volunteer packageurl-python as a "test ground", have some customers interested in supporting that.  v0.90 ⇒ 0.95 ⇒ 1.0 by the end of August.  And call out to others who might already have an implementation.  Given our history we need to push hard near-term to provide some breathing room.  Philippe: want to be able to mobilize maintainers of implementation libraries, e.g., the Java implementation of PURL.  We might be able to obtain some small funding to assist the maintainers update, can't commit but working on it.  Michael: From a project manager's perspective, we need to set a schedule that we're working toward, and then reach out to known implementations – the scheduling document he's prepared already discusses the potential role of implementations.
    - Looking for feedback on the proposed schedule and approach.  We need to speed up to meet the Sept. 1 deadline.
- Governance.
    - Michael: What is our actual governance?  We could, for example, adopt a simplified version of the CycloneDX structure, perhaps create a package ecosystem working group to get representatives from various ecosystems involved in the PURL governance process.
    - The governance topic also raises the question of how decisions should be made.  While Philippe is currently at the center of that process, longer-term we need something more broad-based, e.g., a core group with more people and some sort of consensus process.
    - Michael also raised the idea of a mailing list, perhaps using groups.io as a free way to communicate important updates.
    - Philippe: these are all relevant questions and proposals and we want a transparent process; we'd move much faster with a governance process.  Steve noted that CycloneDX has a mailing list but it is essentially a formality – Slack has been the primary means to announce spec change proposals, with the mailing list used mostly for those whose work policies prohibit the use of Slack in their workspace.
    - Michael raised the subject of the decision-making process, e.g., a "lazy consensus" model with a 72-hour notification period for significant decisions, requiring alternatives for any objections.  He will use a pull request to describe the proposed governance for the period leading up to September 1.
    - Steve raised the issue of the potential impact of the EU Cyber Resilience Act and he, Philippe and Michael discussed the suitability of remaining an independent project vs. a foundation as a home, as well as other considerations re CRA compliance.  Michael's understanding is that the spec itself would not be subject to the CRA because it's not software but that PURL implementations would be.
- Michael's comment reminded Philippe of one other topic that's important for the spec – we need to finish the IANA registration for the "pkg" scheme; just need to add a few lines re the security implications of a PURL.  We need to put this in the timeline and the spec itself.  Philippe will follow up on that.  (See https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/pull/141.)
- Michael summarized: We will add comprehensive milestones, e.g., the milestone for the core spec v0.90 will list everything that needs to be in the release.  We can use the project view for higher-level goals without trying to identify every relevant issue and PR (which the milestones will detail).  If there are no objections, Michael will proceed with that idea, and he and John will prepare a new draft of the milestones.  This would mean a separate project for `vers` and another for PURL types.
- Matt: The rapid evolution of AI has meant that code moves more quickly than ever to production.
    - As a strong supporter of PURL, he hopes PURL can provide a unifying standard for identifying packages and package relationships.  Re relationships, how can PURL represent cherry-picked patches that users can grab from this growing volume of fast-paced code releases?
    - Steve: This is where SBOM formats are relevant, and the PURL identifier needs to be sufficiently specific and to match what's in the SBOM so you can track all the changes you make to it.  Matt: The problem is that often these patches are transitory, e.g., as soon as they're merged, they disappear or are deleted, raising provenance concerns – the patches need to be linked back to the core package.  Philippe: you're forming a new package at some level, a new PURL.  Steve: SWID, for example, has a simple flag: was it patched or not?  This could be a PURL qualifier, providing an indication whether you need to consult the SBOM to see exactly what was patched.  Matt: Yes, exactly.  And in addition to the boolean flag, maybe include a BOM reference as well.  Steve: thinking the same thing.  In the future, in addition to a Boolean flag, you could tie it to an identifier that would enable you to use the Transparency Exchange API (https://github.com/CycloneDX/transparency-exchange-api) and retrieve all the artifacts for that PURL, including changes.
- The meeting was adjourned.
