<img src="https://tc54.org/images/ecma.svg" align="right" height="70" alt="Ecma logo" /> <!-- markdownlint-disable-line MD041 -->

# Agenda for the nineteenth meeting of Ecma TC54-TG2 on 2025-06-20

- **Host**: Remote
- **Dates and times**:
    - 14:00 to 15:00 UTC
    - 16:00 to 17:00 CEST (Europe/Brussels)
    - 10:00 to 11:00 EDT (America/New_York)
    - 07:00 to 08:00 PDT (America/Los Angeles)
    - 23:00 to 00:00 JST (Tokyo, Japan)
- **Attendee information**:
    - https://meet.google.com/vwc-duqp-hcm
    - [Meeting invite](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/event?action=TEMPLATE&tmeid=NzAzNjU3ZTk3NHVzYTRsMjdnaG5jbGVkb2VfMjAyNTA2MjBUMTQwMDAwWiBjX2MwODYxYWJlYmRmNjllZjBkZmVjNjgxM2IyN2JmYzdjMjk3ZDU5MThiM2EyZTk3NmZjYTdiYmViMzg1OGE5YjNAZw&tmsrc=c_c0861abebdf69ef0dfec6813b27bfc7c297d5918b3a2e976fca7bbeb3858a9b3%40group.calendar.google.com)

## Agenda items
- Opening, welcome, and roll call (Chair)
- Review last call minutes:  https://github.com/Ecma-TC54/tg2/blob/main/meetings/2025-06-06.md

## Attendees
- Michael Herzog, AboutCode
- Jannis Hermanns, Apple
- Matt Rutkowski, IBM
- Steve Springett, OWASP Foundation / ServiceNow
- John Horan, AboutCode
-
## Notes
- The meeting is being recorded.  Our code of conduct applies to this meeting.
- Intro by Michael, preliminary matters, proposed agenda.
- Minutes from last meeting: approved.
- In addition to the agenda topics above, attendees commented on additional topics they’d like to discuss today.
    - Michael: name/namespace; PURL `type` Schema
    - Steve: get a sense of what the doc outline will look like.
    - Matt: website status – devs need advice asap, avail. only next 2 weeks; can snippets be related to a PURL?
    - Jannis: nothing atm
    - John: nothing atm
- Summary
    - Michael provided updates on the v0.90 milestones, issue/pull request status (tracked by John), and ongoing discussions regarding namespace/name components (keeping them separate, supported by Philippe Ombredanne and Steve), subpaths, and qualifiers.
    - The participants discussed the timeline, documentation format (sticking with .rst/.md), website updates for developers (Matt's request), relating evidentiary artifacts via PURL, PURL granularity, restructuring documentation, and the PURL `type` schema (decided to use .json over .yaml).
    - The conversation also covered registered PURL types and governance, the role of AboutCode Europe and funding, submitting PURL `type` proposals (Steve's suggestion), PURL `type` schema review and content, JSON Schema version, the outreach plan (Michael), reserved qualifiers (Steve's point), and the creation of a community repo and mailing list.
- v0.90 **Milestones and Scope** Michael recapped the milestones for the v0.90 standard https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/milestone/8 and a related specification covering material beyond the standard https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/milestone/1. The focus of the standard is on normative information describing the data structure and background, not exhaustive how-to details. The goal is to stabilize the basic idea of the standard by the end of the month, despite it being a challenge (00:00:00).
- **Issue and Pull Request Status** Michael noted there are currently 25 items needing resolution for the v0.90 standard: 7 pull requests and 18 issues (00:01:33). John has created Excel reports to track these, which Michael finds easier to use than the GitHub interface (00:00:00). These efforts aim to consolidate discussions and update tickets (00:04:05).
- **Namespace and Name Component Discussion** A key conceptual issue discussed is whether to merge the namespace and name components into one, or keep them separate. Philippe's opinion, supported by Michael, is to keep them separate, allowing those who don't need namespaces to simply not use them, as seen in the Go language example (00:02:54). This decision is important for determining how percent-encoding, particularly slashes '/', will be handled. Steve supports keeping them separate (00:04:05).
- **Subpath and Qualifier Items** Michael mentioned ongoing items related to subpath and qualifiers, such as whether qualifiers should be sorted and whether duplicate qualifiers are allowed. The discussion on these has been lengthy, and John and Michael will focus on applying decisions and moving forward (00:05:19). Piotr Karwasz added a comment to John's subpath pull request suggesting six reserved characters (00:06:29).
- **Timeline and Focused Sessions** Michael stated that the June 30, 2025 deadline for PURL Ecma-Standard v0.90 is aimed at allowing time for implementation and testing. The plan includes focused half-day sessions with Philippe to finalize outstanding items. Steve asked about the timeline for the core documentation to begin planning his work (00:07:43).
- **Documentation Format** Steve has no preference between .rst and .md (00:08:40). John asked about using a Google Document, and Michael clarified that the current plan is to stick with .rst or .md for change control purposes (00:19:54).
- **Website Update for Developers** Matt urged that we provide guidance ASAP to the two developers who are ready to work on website updates. Michael has started work on this, referencing the CycloneDX site for layout ideas, and will create an issue with initial information soon (00:08:40). Matt said even a 90%-complete draft would keep the developers engaged (00:09:42).
- **Relating Evidentiary Artifacts via PURL** Matt brought up the use case of relating evidentiary data to a PURL, e.g., scanner findings of a component with a different name from, but the same content as, a known PURL (00:09:42). This led to a discussion about handling variants or derivatives of a base PURL, possibly using qualifiers or subpaths (00:11:42) (00:13:15). It was agreed that guidance on this should be part of the core spec, not the standard itself (00:14:17). The evidentiary data itself would reside in the SBOM, not the PURL (00:15:13).
- **PURL Granularity and Readability** Michael discussed the left-to-right perspective of a PURL, moving from more human-readable to more machine-readable information. The discussion touched on whether a PURL could exist without a version and the balance between human and machine readability, especially concerning encoding (00:15:48) (00:17:13). Matt provided analogies of a house's bill of materials and SpaceX heat tiles to illustrate the need for more specific identifiers (00:16:28) (00:18:08).
- **Restructuring Documentation** Michael emphasized the need to restructure the current documentation to better align with the standard and core spec, as the historical files are no longer ideal (00:18:08). This will likely involve hard work and creating a concrete proposal in an issue. A more granular and better-structured approach should simplify handling pull requests (00:19:03).
- **PURL `Type` Schema Discussion** Michael raised the topic of the PURL `type` schema, noting Philippe's suggestion of .yaml, which Michael and Steve discourage in favor of .json. Steve highlighted security and completeness concerns with .yaml compared to .json (00:21:09). The decision is to proceed with the JSON Schema, as it is well-tested and widely supported (00:22:14).
- **Registered PURL Types and Governance** Michael discussed the concept of "known PURLs," suggesting the term "registered" instead, as it is more neutral and doesn't imply approval. Steve agreed with the term "registered" (00:24:07) (00:26:41). A governance process for registering PURL `type`s will be needed, likely involving pull requests and review by knowledgeable individuals (00:25:34). Michael also raised the broader issue of PURL governance, particularly engaging with leaders from various package communities to reach decisions (00:28:03).
- **AboutCode Europe and Funding** Michael clarified that "AboutCode" currently refers to the non-profit based in Belgium, AboutCode Europe, which has received significant funding to work on PURL, including outreach to package communities and tool improvements. There are also plans for an international AboutCode foundation (00:29:22).
- **Submitting PURL `Type` Proposals** Steve suggested multiple ways for users to participate in PURL, including submitting proposals for new PURL `type`s. It was noted that non-technical users may need a lower-friction method than GitHub pull requests, such as a template email (00:31:32).
- **PURL `Type` Schema Review and Content** Steve explained that the current PURL `type` schema work includes an index schema and a schema for the PURL `type` itself, aiming to capture existing specifications in a machine-readable way. He raised questions about what should be permitted during registration, such as case sensitivity and allowed characters (00:34:55). There was a discussion about using test suites to define specificity and improve interoperability (00:36:30). Michael suggested the possibility of baseline and advanced tests (00:37:53).
- **JSON Schema Version** Steve mentioned using JSON Schema draft 7 https://json-schema.org/draft-07 due to its widespread tool support, even though newer versions exist. There is a possibility that JSON Schema will eventually become an Ecma standard (00:45:05).
- **Outreach Plan and Timing** Michael outlined a tentative outreach plan for the v1.0 standard and core spec, suggesting a push to get the word out starting in January 2026, since December is usually a slow business month. An outreach team could be formed for those interested in contributing (00:49:11). Funding is available for contributors through AboutCode Europe (00:50:12).
- **Reserved Qualifiers** Steve raised the need to define reserved qualifiers that would be applicable to all PURL types, to be included in the standard (00:51:11). Michael agreed with the concept of reserved qualifiers (00:52:41). John noted that there is a section in the existing specification related to qualifiers – a new issue may be needed to specifically address reserved qualifiers (00:53:30).
- **Community Repo and Mailing List** Michael mentioned creating a "community" repo under github.com/package-url for organizational and administrative items (00:54:59). He also plans to propose a mailing list for outbound communication. Matt requested the link to the issue in the community repo (00:54:59).  See https://github.com/package-url/community/issues/1.
- The meeting was adjourned.
