<img src="https://tc54.org/images/ecma.svg" align="right" height="70" alt="Ecma logo" /> <!-- markdownlint-disable-line MD041 -->

# Agenda for the tenth meeting of Ecma TC54-TG2 on 2025-01-17

- **Host**: Remote
- **Dates and times**:
    - 14:00 to 15:00 UTC
      - 16:00 to 17:00 CEST (Europe/Brussels)
      - 10:00 to 11:00 EDT (America/New_York)
      - 07:00 to 08:00 PDT (America/Los Angeles)
      - 23:00 to 00:00 JST (Tokyo, Japan)
- **Attendee information**:
  - https://meet.google.com/ayu-mpvf-ycw
  - [Meeting invite](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/event?action=TEMPLATE&tmeid=NXVqbW9mMDMzaDVuZmlsMDdsZWZsMm9kNXVfMjAyNDEwMjVUMTQwMDAwWiBjX2Q4YjE1NDIwZGZmMTdiNzk1OWUyOWE1MWFlMzI0MDk1MWNiZTM4ZGIxZGFlNDU5NzJhODVjOWE3MTEyMDQyMDVAZw&tmsrc=c_d8b15420dff17b7959e29a51ae3240951cbe38db1dae45972a85c9a711204205%40group.calendar.google.com&scp=ALL)

## Agenda items
- Opening, welcome, and roll call (Chair)
- Review last call minutes: https://github.com/Ecma-TC54/tg2/blob/main/meetings/2024-12-20.md
- Discuss videoconferencing platform
- Rescheduling call on Feb 1
- Steve: timelines for taking community document to Ecma format
- Matt: None
- Philippe: Logistics
- John: None
- Adam: None
- Salve: None

## Attendees
- Philippe Ombredanne, creator of PURL, Lead maintainer of AboutCode, TC54-TG2 convener
- Steve Springett, OWASP Foundation / ServiceNow
- Matt Rutkowski, IBM
- Salve J. Nilsen, CPAN Security Group, observer
- Adam Herzog, AboutCode
- John Horan, AboutCode

## Notes
- The meeting is being recorded.  Our code of conduct applies to this meeting.
- Intro by Philippe, preliminary matters, proposed agenda
- Minutes from last meeting: approved
- Attendees commented on topics they’d like to discuss today.
- Steve: summarized timeline needs.  PURL spec itself: a bit of an unknown until he knows how we are structuring it –- likely one week; everything else -- history and other sections -– perhaps another week or so.  Philippe: likely not until first or second week of February at the earliest given various open source and other events including FOSDEM –- see, e.g., https://workshop.aboutcode.org/.  Let’s shoot for the second week of February.  Steve: we already have a build process -– see https://github.com/Ecma-TC54/ECMA-xxx-PURL .
- Philippe:
    - We are moving the next meeting from 2025-01-31 to the following week -– Friday 2025-02-07.
    - We’ll move to a different URL for the next meeting so we can use the built-in Google Meet recording functionality.
    - John and Philippe have started a PURL GitHub project board (currently private as we organize component-by-component updating).  The source for populating the project board is the issue/PR data collection and analysis in the two Google Sheets John has created.  [JMH edit: The project board initially will be drawn primarily from the purl-encoding-items gSheet, and the focus will be the core spec updating, with the type spec updating to follow.]  The two gSheets:
        - open-purl-spec-issues-and-prs.xlsx (https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1H2QAcADLaMNgcR5BMK7bQxzH5D3X-SdO)
        - purl-encoding-items-spreadsheet-2024-12-01.xlsx (https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1biOCUY4eCqQaYmfGDHVrASV9igYEzct6)
    - We had a first community meeting back in December.  Yesterday, we set up a biweekly meeting schedule –- 30 minutes or so to discuss who might want to tackle various update tasks/issues etc. (See https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/discussions/377.)  Goals include creating and using narrowly-focused PRs to facilitate and simplify the updating process.  For example, John recently created a PR focused on RFC 2119/8174 PR (uppercasing of MUST et al.).  Despite its narrow focus, the PR elicited a broad range of valuable comments concerning the accuracy of the spec's rules for a number of different PURL components.  In order to keep our focus narrow and move as efficiently as possible through each group of related topics, this PR will be closed and the various comments will be addressed in narrowly-focused PRs, component by component.
    - Philippe had several calls this week with the CVE.org Quality Working Group re recommending that PURL, and eventually the version spec, be made part of the CVE data.  He’ll make sure all relevant documents/information are made available to Steve et al. for the Ecma/PURL review process.  He also had a call with folks from Mitre who are working on a different aspect of the same general effort re integrating PURL into the CVE data.
        - Steve: That's great news.  Suggested other avenues to consider as well.
        - Philippe: Agree wholeheartedly.  The CVE schema could provide substantial leverage toward integrating PURL into others as well.
    - Philippe discussed the approaching FOSDEM conference including the workshop he has organized -– next week in Brussels.  The Eclipse Foundation and others have also scheduled some interesting workshops/presentations.
    - The new meeting URL (for the Feb. 7 and subsequent meetings): meet.google.com/qji-axhc-wcn
    - The new community calls (starting next week – Wednesday 2025-01-22): see https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/discussions/377 .
- The meeting was adjourned.
