<img src="https://tc54.org/images/ecma.svg" align="right" height="70" alt="Ecma logo" /> <!-- markdownlint-disable-line MD041 -->

# Agenda for the thirteenth meeting of Ecma TC54-TG2 on 2025-03-14

- **Host**: Remote
- **Dates and times**:
    - 14:00 to 15:00 UTC
    - 15:00 to 16:00 CET (Europe/Brussels)
    - 10:00 to 11:00 EDT (America/New_York)
    - 07:00 to 08:00 PDT (America/Los Angeles)
    - 23:00 to 00:00 JST (Tokyo, Japan)

- **Attendee information**:
  - http://meet.google.com/qji-axhc-wcn
  - [Meeting invite](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/event?action=TEMPLATE&tmeid=MWd2bzcydWloM2h1dWZsYnBwN3Rxc2sxYXZfMjAyNTAyMTRUMTUwMDAwWiBjXzg4NGRlY2RlNWExNTI5MDJiYjUxYTYyZjg5NTUwZDBmMzc0ODQ4NDUzNGYwOGM2Mzc5MmYyZTY1NGYyYTdlYmNAZw&tmsrc=c_884decde5a152902bb51a62f89550d0f3748484534f08c63792f2e654f2a7ebc%40group.calendar.google.com&scp=ALL)

## Agenda items
- Opening, welcome, and roll call (Chair)
- Review last call minutes: https://github.com/Ecma-TC54/tg2/blob/main/meetings/2025-02-28.md
- Steve: nothing in particular
- John-David: just observing
- Piotr: nothing in particular
- Philippe: a number of topics (see below)
- John: nothing in particular
- Matt: observing
- Michael: observing


## Attendees
- Philippe Ombredanne, creator of PURL, Lead maintainer of AboutCode, TC54-TG2 convener
- Steve Springett, OWASP Foundation / ServiceNow
- John-David Dalton, Socket
- Piotr P. Karwasz, Apache Software Foundation
- John Horan, AboutCode
- Michael Herzog, AboutCode
- Matt Rutkowski, IBM


## Notes
- The meeting is being recorded.  Our code of conduct applies to this meeting.
- Intro by Philippe, preliminary matters, proposed agenda.
- Minutes from last meeting: approved.
- Attendees commented on topics they'd like to discuss today.
- Philippe: status updates
    - Community call last Wednesday – minutes: https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/tree/main/meetings
    - It's clear that we are not using RFC 3986 in toto -- some modifications.  Matt Donoughe has provided excellent data re how various implementations implement the core spec.  The `qualifiers` issue and PR are currently the focus of the percent-encoding discussion/updating.  See PR 398 (https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/pull/398).  (Philippe added more details in his summary.)
    - The test suite is also under active discussion and updating.  Philippe walked us through PR 398 and the related sections of the core spec including changes made and contemplated.  Default percent-encoding with exceptions specified in the individual component sections.  John is updating/clarifying the `qualifiers` and "Character encoding" sections (and other sections).
    - Piotr asked about parser behavior and provided examples.  Philippe: we'll be adding a separate section for parsing – gentle fail vs. raise an exception.  Piotr: strict and lenient specs?  Philippe: consolidate in just one section.
    - Philippe: hoping that we'll be done with the character encoding section by the next TC54-TG2 meeting.
    - Philippe: discussed namespace/name encoding issues.  Some PURL types are "outliers" of a sort re namespace/name.
    - Steve's PR re JSON Schema.  Haven't made any progress since the last meeting but Philippe screen-shared the schema and walked us through his thinking on how to address/implement.  Steve: will make changes we discussed.
    - Matt: use of Unicode encoding is an issue, especially re namespace.  Philippe: we're addressing in the encoding section.  Matt: clear examples and a definitive regex would be ideal.  Philippe: we want to do this in a compact way, seeking balance between hyper-precision and reference to RFC 3986.  Matt: someone asserted that the PURL is a URI with its own rules re namespace/name characters.  A definitive regex would clarify – take direct control *without outside references*.  The lack of sufficient detail (i.e., granular clarity) leads to competing/conflicting implementations, which we want to avoid.  Philippe: understood; we'll update and comments will be welcome.
    - Michael: general process question – do we have an articulated strategy re dealing with feedback, i.e., spec update cadence/frequency?  Realistic to anticipate the need to address new and unanticipated issues.  Philippe: once we have a 1.0 spec we'll reach out to the various implementations/implementers.  Perhaps a yearly update.  Michael: type releases are separate from the core spec itself and the former should rarely affect the latter.  Philippe: agreed; perhaps annual for core spec and ad hoc for types.  Michael: suggests we document the anticipated update schedule.  1.0 won't be a breaking change – we're just trying to document the details of the core spec as it is.
    - Steve: made progress on Ecma document generation.  Created Docker container: one build step for online doc and distributable.
    - John-David: agrees with general direction.
    - Matt: implementations matter.  Canonical implementation would be very helpful and should be on our radar.  In addition, think about how we can support the current and growing range of AI/ML-related types (e.g., beyond HuggingFace).
- The meeting was adjourned.
