<img src="https://tc54.org/images/ecma.svg" align="right" height="70" alt="Ecma logo" /> <!-- markdownlint-disable-line MD041 -->

# Agenda for the twenty-third meeting of Ecma TC54-TG2 on 2025-08-15

- **Host**: Remote
- **Dates and times**:
    - 14:00 to 15:00 UTC
    - 16:00 to 17:00 CEST (Europe/Brussels)
    - 10:00 to 11:00 EDT (America/New_York)
    - 07:00 to 08:00 PDT (America/Los Angeles)
    - 23:00 to 00:00 JST (Tokyo, Japan)
- **Attendee information**:
    - https://meet.google.com/ryq-aimn-ghd

## Agenda items
- Opening, welcome, and roll call (Chair)
- Review last call minutes: https://github.com/Ecma-TC54/tg2/blob/main/meetings/2025-08-01.md
- Ecma standard documentation
    - PURL Standard draft - https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/blob/main/purl-standard.md
    - Markdown output for purl-type-definition.json.schema - https://drive.google.com/file/d/1av5Pk1IjBznP-paWhW-mRs7M78IahJs2/view?usp=sharing

## Attendees
- Philippe Ombredanne, creator of PURL, Lead maintainer of AboutCode, TC54-TG2 convener
- Steve Springett, OWASP Foundation / ServiceNow
- Michael Herzog, AboutCode
- Salve J. Nilsen, CPANSec
- John Horan, AboutCode

## Notes
- The meeting is being recorded.  Our code of conduct applies to this meeting.  https://github.com/Ecma-TC54/tg2/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md.
- Intro by Philippe, preliminary matters, proposed agenda.
- Minutes from last meeting: approved.
- In addition to the agenda topics above, attendees commented on additional topics theyâ€™d like to discuss today.
    - Michael: see the agenda items.
    - Steve: changes process and related.
    - Salve: index, changes timing.
    - Philippe: discuss markdown and related items.
- Summary
    - Philippe Ombredanne, Michael Herzog, Steve Springett, and Salve Nilsen discussed several key aspects of the Package-URL (PURL) standard.
    - Salve proposed adding information about tools capable of consuming or producing PURLs to the purl-types-index.schema.json (https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/blob/main/schemas/purl-types-index.schema.json) schema.
    - Philippe Ombredanne and Michael Herzog agreed that while the index should remain a bare list, additional metadata for package types could be valuable.
    - Michael Herzog presented the restructured repository and sought feedback on the desired human-readable format for the schema.
    - The participants discussed the timeline and remaining work to submit the draft standard to Ecma by 2025-09-01, with Michael Herzog planning to create prototypes of output formats for further discussion.
- **Meeting Minutes Approval and Roll Call** Philippe Ombredanne initiated the meeting by confirming the recording status and adherence to the code of conduct.
    - The first order of business was to approve the previous meeting minutes, which were considered accepted with the option for later updates (00:00:00).
    - During the roll call, Michael Herzog raised two critical topics: reviewing the draft standard document, specifically the markdown generated output for the schema, and discussing the desired human-readable format for the schema (00:01:30). Steve Springett inquired about the stabilization of the standard directory and the process for changes. Salve Nilsen asked if the purl-types-index.schema.json was in its final form (00:02:55).
- **Discussion of purl-types-index.schema.json** Salve proposed adding information to the purl-types-index.schema.json that would list packages capable of consuming or producing PURLs, aiding users in identifying necessary tools for specific package systems (00:04:32). Philippe Ombredanne questioned if this information should be on the type definition rather than the index, while Michael Herzog stated that the index's purpose is solely to list registered types and that adding such details would overload it (00:05:38). Salve clarified that they were seeking a location for this metadata and suggested the index as a suitable place (00:07:14).
- **Metadata for Package Types** Philippe Ombredanne and Michael Herzog agreed that the index should remain a bare list, but acknowledged Salve Nilsen's point about the value of additional useful information for each package type (00:08:08). Philippe Ombredanne suggested including details such as links to icons, URL templates for API calls, and information on package metadata formats, in addition to Salve's suggestion of typical tools that consume specific package types. Salve further clarified that they wished to know which tools could process PURLs of a specific type, using the PURL as an input (00:09:11).
- **Feasibility and Implementation of New Metadata** Philippe Ombredanne affirmed the utility of capturing information about tools that consume PURLs or natively process package types, noting that such consolidated information is currently unavailable (00:10:32). Michael Herzog, while recognizing the value, stated that incorporating this immediately into the standard for the September 1 deadline is not feasible due to the tight timeline. They suggested creating an issue to develop and figure out how to include this information, possibly in a new schema that is not yet part of the standard (00:14:41).
- **Standard Document Structure and Generation** Michael Herzog presented the restructured repository, where the PURL-SPECIFICATION.rst has been separated into several markdown documents under a `docs` directory (https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/tree/main/docs). Files in the `standard` subdirectory are part of the proposed version 1.0 standard, while others are part of the specification but not the standard (00:18:19). They explained that a generated document replaces the PURL-SPECIFICATION.rst, aligning with the Ecma standard documentation requirements and incorporating cleanup efforts, including adherence to Oxford English dictionary spelling (00:19:45).
- **Human-Readable Schema Representation** Michael Herzog detailed the need to replace placeholder text in section six of the Ecma standard draft template with a human-readable representation of the schema. They demonstrated a markdown output generated by John Horan directly from the schema file using json-schema-for-humans ("JSFH") (https://github.com/coveooss/json-schema-for-humans), noting that it produced a table of contents and potentially redundant information that might not be user-friendly (00:24:09). They also showed a manually-edited version that reset titles and removed paths for better readability, and sought feedback on the desired output format for the standard (00:26:13) (00:29:50).
- **Automation and Tooling for Standard Generation** Michael Herzog discussed the critical path item of automating the generation of the human-readable schema (00:29:50). Philippe Ombredanne suggested forking the JSFH library or contributing upstream to customize it for Ecma output, aiming for a fully-generated and reusable document. Michael Herzog agreed on the aspiration for automation, but emphasized the immediate need to finalize the target output format before proceeding with automation efforts (00:31:54). John Horan was tasked with continuing to work on customizing the JSFH templates and desired output (00:35:12).
- **Debate on Terminology and Standard Contents** Michael Herzog acknowledged Philippe Ombredanne's concern about the tool name "for humans" but reaffirmed the project's goal of producing human-readable content for the standard, even if the schema itself is the canonical reference (00:35:12). They also discussed the need for adherence to specific criteria, such as Oxford English spelling, for the standard (00:36:56). Michael Herzog raised an open question about including a "terms and definitions" section, noting that the current document does not have enough terms to warrant it, unlike the CycloneDX document (00:39:07). Philippe Ombredanne agreed, believing such definitions are redundant given that the schema provides them (00:40:30).
- **Timeline and Remaining Work** Michael Herzog indicated that the remaining work involves completing the generation of the schema sections, adding appendices, and addressing other document elements typically handled by Steve Springett. They clarified that the timeline is to submit the draft standard to Ecma by September 1, with a checkpoint next week (00:42:42). The immediate urgency is to produce the PURL standard document, specifically sections six and seven, and the appendices, within the next week (00:45:12). Michael Herzog plans to create prototypes of the output formats for further discussion and consultation with Steve Springett (00:49:09).
- The meeting was adjourned.
