<img src="https://tc54.org/images/ecma.svg" align="right" height="70" alt="Ecma logo" /> <!-- markdownlint-disable-line MD041 -->

# Agenda for the twenty-seventh meeting of Ecma TC54-TG2 on 2025-10-24

- **Host**: Remote
- **Dates and times**:
    - 14:00 to 15:00 UTC
    - 16:00 to 17:00 CEST (Europe/Brussels)
    - 10:00 to 11:00 EDT (America/New_York)
    - 07:00 to 08:00 PDT (America/Los Angeles)
    - 23:00 to 00:00 JST (Tokyo, Japan)
- **Attendee information**:
    - https://meet.google.com/ryq-aimn-ghd

## Agenda items
- Opening, welcome, and roll call (Chair)
- Review last call minutes: https://github.com/Ecma-TC54/tg2/blob/main/meetings/2025-10-10.md
- Ecma standard update
- Website update
- Release scheme
- Proposed schema changes
- VERS roadmap
- Standard vs spec

## Attendees
- Philippe Ombredanne, creator of PURL, Lead maintainer of AboutCode, TC54-TG2 convener
- Michael Herzog, AboutCode
- Steve Springett, OWASP Foundation / ServiceNow
- John Horan, AboutCode

## Notes
- The meeting is being recorded.  Our code of conduct applies to this meeting.  [https://github.com/Ecma-TC54/tg2/blob/main/CODE\_OF\_CONDUCT.md](https://github.com/Ecma-TC54/tg2/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).
- Intro by Philippe, preliminary matters, proposed agenda.
- Minutes from last meeting: approved.
- Summary
  - Philippe Ombredanne opened the bi-weekly meeting, highlighting the PURL project's code of conduct and leading a review of the October 10th meeting notes.
  - Key agenda items included Ecma standard updates, website enhancements, and proposed schema changes, with significant contributions from Michael Herzog and Steve Springett on these topics.
  - The meeting concluded with discussions on version management, the VERS scheme standardization roadmap, and the consensus to close Edition 1 of the PURL standard, with Michael Herzog confirming the completion of the initial standard changes.
- **Bi-Weekly Meeting Opening** Philippe Ombredanne opened the meeting, reminding everyone about the PURL project's code of conduct and sharing a link in the chat. They also initiated a review of the October 10th meeting minutes for approval, and the minutes were approved.
- **Agenda Discussion** Philippe Ombredanne outlined the agenda, noting that Michael Herzog had several topics to discuss, including an Ecma standard update, a website update, and proposed schema changes (00:01:37). Steve Springett emphasized the importance of changes to the Ecma standard for their immediate future and also brought up the need for a roadmap for VERS. Philippe Ombredanne also wished to clarify the distinction between "standard" and "spec" for the community if time permitted (00:02:37).
- **Ecma Standard Updates \- Scope Text and Namespace Change** Michael Herzog reported on the Ecma standard, mentioning proposed scope text that had been modified multiple times for brevity and sent to Samina Husain. They also discussed a document explaining why a namespace change was editorial rather than normative, providing evidence that this was not a controversial change (00:03:56) (00:08:57). Steve Springett confirmed receipt of the email and the document, and acknowledged a pull request from John Horan (PR 28 â€“ [https://github.com/Ecma-TC54/ECMA-xxx-PURL/pull/28](https://github.com/Ecma-TC54/ECMA-xxx-PURL/pull/28)) regarding a "MAY" to "must" change, which was an inadvertent change in a previous update (00:05:01) (00:08:57).
- **Access to Draft Documents** Michael Herzog encountered an issue with Steve Springett's access to draft documents stored on a Google Drive, noting that sharing with an email address without a Google account seemed to be causing problems (00:05:49). They resolved the access issue by sharing the file again (00:06:48). Michael Herzog clarified that the draft documentation folder serves as a workspace and is not authoritative (00:05:49).
- **Finalizing Ecma Standard Changes** Philippe Ombredanne shared their screen to review John Horan's PR 28, confirming the removal of "normative optional subclauses," a typo correction, and the correction of the "MAY" to "must" change (00:09:50). Michael Herzog explained that the "normative optional" point might be useful for legacy or new PURL types with contention but is not being proposed at this time (00:11:06). Philippe Ombredanne proposed adding the agreed-upon scope text change, to which Steve Springett and Michael Herzog agreed, aiming to finalize the document (00:12:20).
- **Implementing Scope Text Change** Philippe Ombredanne proceeded to implement the two-paragraph scope text change into the document, ensuring consistency with existing formatting and checking for any HTML escaping needs (00:13:13). They previewed the changes to confirm no spacing issues and committed the update (00:14:35). Michael Herzog indicated that the scope change, along with the MAY/must correction, would finalize the first edition standard changes (00:12:20) (00:19:14).
- **Closing Ecma Standard Edition 1** Philippe Ombredanne confirmed that, despite lower attendance, there was a consensus to close the current Edition 1 of the PURL standard, with Michael Herzog affirming that this concludes the first edition standard changes. They acknowledged no objections to this decision (00:19:14).
- **Website Update \- Registered PURL Type Grid** Michael Herzog moved on to discuss website updates, showcasing a new "registered PURL type grid" that John Horan had developed. They highlighted its visual appeal and mentioned the need for a pseudo-logo for "swid," handling "generic" types, and adding "julia" (00:20:28).
- **Website Update \- Tools Grid and Naming Conventions** Michael Herzog presented the tools grid, conceptually borrowed from the CycloneDX tool center, and discussed the initial list of tools. They raised the issue of generic tool names, suggesting a style guide and requesting projects to use more specific names, like "Package-URL" as a prefix, to avoid confusion on download sites (00:23:16) (00:25:23). Philippe Ombredanne cautioned against causing disturbance by forcing name changes, citing the "left-pad" incident ([https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Npm\_left-pad\_incident](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Npm_left-pad_incident)) as an example where strong feelings around names could lead to negative consequences (00:24:21) (00:26:33).
- **Website Update \- Adopters, Tools, and Supporters** Michael Herzog posed a key question regarding whether to have two distinct concepts for adopters and tools or to merge them, also considering the role of supporters. They suggested supporters would be organizational level only, following the CycloneDX model of sponsors (00:30:12). Michael Herzog recommended that adoption be an attribute of a tool, while Philippe Ombredanne proposed a separation: core dedicated libraries as one tool class, tools that use PURL as another, and then general adopters/users/supporters (00:32:00).
- **Website Update \- Data Consolidation and Website Launch** Steve Springett suggested centralizing tools/adopter data into a single file to be used in multiple places, similar to CycloneDX's approach, which Philippe Ombredanne liked (00:38:50). Michael Herzog stated that while data consolidation isn't a requirement for a minimal viable website, clarity on adopters versus tools is needed (00:49:28). Michael Herzog inquired if the group wanted to publish the website without some content, to which Steve Springett and Philippe Ombredanne agreed to publish a minimal viable version and add more content later (00:43:31).
- **Website Update \- Domain Registration and Minimal Viable Product** Michael Herzog noted that \`package-url.org\` was available and suggested registering it, along with its .net and .com counterparts, to prevent squatting (00:46:22). Philippe Ombredanne confirmed that the domains without the dash were already secured but agreed to secure the dash version as well (00:47:23). Michael Herzog proposed a minimal viable website focusing on the tool center, PURL spec, and VERS spec, and sought consensus on keeping adopters and tools as separate concepts (00:45:21) (00:50:19).
- **Proposed Schema and Release Changes** Michael Herzog discussed the proposed release approach: sequential editions for Ecma standards, SemVer for the full specification, and CalVer for PURL types. Philippe Ombredanne clarified that they envision a third level, with editions for Ecma, SemVer for the full spec, and CalVer for types, with types released quarterly (00:53:18). Michael Herzog stated that Ecma editions and spec versions are likely to be independent, meaning a new Ecma edition might not directly correlate with a specific PURL spec version number. Steve Springett explained that CycloneDX correlates them and that their approach is similar to TC39 (JavaScript) ([https://tc39.es/](https://tc39.es/)), where the standard represents the ratified specification at a point in time (00:54:37). Michael Herzog also acknowledged that the PURL spec might have information that is not yet in the standard as not all spec material is included in the standard (00:56:35).
- **Versioning of Standards** Michael Herzog explained that versioning in Ecma is referred to as "editions" (e.g., the next edition will be 2.0, not 1.1), and that ISO standards use the year for versioning instead of edition numbers. Steve Springett suggested creating a table on the website to map the different versioning schemes (00:58:01). Michael Herzog highlighted that the literal versioning systems used by ECMA and ISO are not the same, even if correlated (00:58:58).
- **Version Management and Release Process** Michael Herzog stated that schema files are currently set to version 0.1 for test files, with a plan to move to 1.0 if submitted as part of the standard. Philippe Ombredanne suggested that a table mapping versions, as proposed by Steve Springett, would be more practical than trying to align all versions artificially (00:59:56). Steve Springett proposed using a date-based versioning system, similar to JSON schema, where the specification and schemas are versioned by date, which Philippe Ombredanne found appealing for its clarity and simplicity (01:01:53). Michael Herzog noted that the current implicit decision for schemas is to remain at version 1.0, and that they need a clear decision on the versioning scheme moving forward (01:04:03).
- **Normative Changes and Project Tracking** Michael Herzog discussed a project called "PURL Standard 2nd Edition" ([https://github.com/orgs/package-url/projects/7/views/1](https://github.com/orgs/package-url/projects/7/views/1)) to track normative changes to the standard, including schema changes and additions like validation tests and enums for namespace and qualifiers (01:05:47). He emphasized the importance of distinguishing between normative and editorial content, with a focus on tracking normative changes in a project for approval and grouping (01:07:05) (01:16:00). They also discussed issues with existing validation tests and documentation, noting a need for consensus on how to handle test outcomes like success messages (01:08:16).
- **VERS Scheme Standardization Roadmap** Michael Herzog explained that a schema for the VERS scheme is a gating item for its standardization roadmap, which currently has only a draft test schema and no defined schema for VERS itself (01:13:41) (01:16:58). Philippe Ombredanne indicated that the long-term ambition for VERS is to formally define versioning rules, similar to SemVer, but acknowledged the complexity and messiness of versioning across ecosystems (01:18:02). Michael Herzog emphasized the need for a basic schema for VERS to implement the concept of named schemes and track their meaning, which Philippe Ombredanne agreed would be necessary (01:19:14).
- The meeting was adjourned.
