<img src="https://tc54.org/images/ecma.svg" align="right" height="70" alt="Ecma logo" /> <!-- markdownlint-disable-line MD041 -->

# Agenda for the eighteenth meeting of Ecma TC54-TG2 on 2025-06-06

- **Host**: Remote
- **Dates and times**:
    - 14:00 to 15:00 UTC
    - 16:00 to 17:00 CEST (Europe/Brussels)
    - 10:00 to 11:00 EDT (America/New_York)
    - 07:00 to 08:00 PDT (America/Los Angeles)
    - 23:00 to 00:00 JST (Tokyo, Japan)
- **Attendee information**:
    - https://meet.google.com/vwc-duqp-hcm
    - [Meeting invite](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/event?action=TEMPLATE&tmeid=NzAzNjU3ZTk3NHVzYTRsMjdnaG5jbGVkb2VfMjAyNTA2MDZUMTQwMDAwWiBjX2MwODYxYWJlYmRmNjllZjBkZmVjNjgxM2IyN2JmYzdjMjk3ZDU5MThiM2EyZTk3NmZjYTdiYmViMzg1OGE5YjNAZw&tmsrc=c_c0861abebdf69ef0dfec6813b27bfc7c297d5918b3a2e976fca7bbeb3858a9b3%40group.calendar.google.com)

## Agenda items
- Opening, welcome, and roll call (Chair)
- Review last call minutes: https://github.com/Ecma-TC54/tg2/blob/main/meetings/2025-05-23.md
- Clarify what, if any, how-to (build/parse) information needs to be included in the Ecma standard vs the Core Specification
- Clarify what, if any, test information needs to be included in the Ecma standard vs the Core Specification

## Attendees
- Philippe Ombredanne, creator of PURL, Lead maintainer of AboutCode, TC54-TG2 convener
- Steve Springett, OWASP Foundation / ServiceNow
- Salve J. Nilsen (CPANSec)
- Matt Rutkowski, IBM
- Michael Herzog, AboutCode
- John Horan, AboutCode

## Notes
- The meeting is being recorded.  Our code of conduct applies to this meeting.
- Intro by Philippe, preliminary matters, proposed agenda.
- Minutes from last meeting: approved.
- In addition to the agenda topics above, attendees commented on additional topics they’d like to discuss today.
    - John: nothing atm
    - Steve: status of various docs; can we start working on Ecmarkup?
    - Salve: PURL and VERS status
    - Matt: website status; support for website feedback
    - Philippe: status updates on spec, other matters
    - Michael: already in agenda
- Salve: Anything to share re status of package-url, especially the version aspects – anything he can share with an upcoming CVE Numbering Authority meeting where they are discussing Package URLs?
    - Philippe: there have been various discussions with community members, external groups/orgs, including with MITRE and the CVE Quality Working Group re PURL support in the CVE schema.  There's been a PR re adding PURL support that has been retracted to rework the version range part.
    - Philippe summarized timeline/milestone planning etc.  Working toward 1.0 PURL approval by Dec 15, freezing the core spec by the end of June to allow time for updating libraries, harmonization, and preparing the Ecma document format.  Work on PURL types and VERS will intensify after the initial PURL work.  No surprises or major changes in the PURL spec itself, though a lot of work ahead.  Interest in PURL continues to grow.
    - The number of issues/PRs remains a challenge – we're closing/merging existing PRs at the same time that community members are adding new issues/PRs.  Salve asked about deadlines for adding new PURL types – Philippe clarified that there is no deadline since types are being handled separately from the core spec.  We'll have a schema (as part of the 1.0 PURL standard) to describe the type fields, and the type definitions themselves will be external.
    - Philippe re spec update status – we finally merged the character-encoding PR after many comments and much work, and are left with name, namespace, version components as the main remaining work.  Have not yet resolved the question of how to handle slash '/' in namespace/name, especially re Go/golang – the current approach is to not change the encoding of slashes in names and namespaces, with the Go language case to be addressed later.
- Michael: He and John worked on milestones for PURL v0.90 and VERS v0.90.  After several rounds of review we have 78 open issues/PRs in the PURL v0.90 milestone.  Concluded that we need to distinguish between a relatively thin or lightweight Ecma "standard" vs. more-detailed "specification".  Proposing that testing, how-tos (e.g., build, parse, create test objects) are part of the larger specification but not the narrower PURL 1.0 standard, which would comprise the seven PURL components, the character-encoding rules, and the JSON Schema for the PURL type – this is what we'd submit for the formal standard.  The decision has not yet clearly been made re what is the scope of the standard vs. the scope of the spec – need to clarify so we can focus on the standard first.  Similar approach contemplated for VERS.
- Steve: the Ecmarkup syntax actually has a flag re whether something is normative or informational.  If we focus just on just the normative aspects – the things that define the spec (i.e., what Michael is referring to as the "standard" to be submitted), and optionally provide a few examples, that should suffice.  The three categories Michael described (the components, the character-encoding rules, and the JSON type Schema) would fall under normative.  In addition, the very first part of the standard covers conformance – this needs to be fully fleshed-out to ensure that anyone claiming to be PURL compliant would need to satisfy these requirements, which are not normative but just part of compliance.
- The participants agreed with the suggested approach.  Michael: he and John will split the current PURL v0.90 milestone into two v0.90 milestones – the PURL Ecma-Standard v0.90 and the PURL Core-Spec v0.90.
- Philippe: asked Steve whether we could include in the conformance section that conformance requires that you pass the test suite, with a link to the test suite (which will be part of the larger spec but not the standard).  Steve: yes, he thinks we can do that.  Michael: thinks there are several tickets we'll need to update to record that.
- Philippe: it's important that we close John's namespace/name PR 453 https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/pull/453, asked Steve to look at the PR, and Steve confirmed he will.  Michael noted that after namespace-name we still have John's version PR to vet.  Philippe: our goal is to complete all of these by the end of June and he's reasonably comfortable we can get there; Michael agrees but that will still involve a considerable amount of Philippe's time to put the final imprimatur on decisions that have been percolating for quite a while and have to be finalized.
- Michael: July and August will include testing, and are teeing up resources for that.  The general plan (https://docs.google.com/document/d/1O6cEPE1Y3cUEmjlQOw12WiBQoUonC3yJ/edit) does not yet address community outreach, which is important.
    - He has started a repo called "community"; we need to consider various options/approaches, e.g., the website that Matt is going to discuss shortly, how do we reach out to the people involved in the various implementations, since those are the logical ones to test with, how do we have a forum for that, who is authoritative about particular PURL types, and so on.
    - Steve: you might want to consider documenting any Ecma-related resources we would want to ask for, e.g., in terms of test suites, and we can make a formal ask.  That seems to be a desire of Ecma, though perhaps not supported yet in a formal sense.
    - Philippe: that's great, and several things come to mind.  First, maybe a simple post or announcement asking for help/input from package maintainers – help on testing would be very useful.   We're also working on possibly getting some funding around PURL validation and helping maintainers of PURL implementations update their implementations to the latest spec.
- Steve informed TC54 during yesterday's call that they should expect a document from this TG (TG2) by the September 1 timeframe.  Expecting a document from PURL and a document from Common Lifecycle Enumeration (TG3).
- Philippe: status of the documentation to be submitted to Ecma – nothing much yet.  Will start working on that by the end of the month if not before.  Steve: discussed use of Ecmarkup, e.g., by CycloneDX.
- Michael: re Matt's website questions, the website is addressed in several planning docs, just need to start getting protocols in place.
- Steve noted that the JSON schema for the PURL `type` will include a domain name as part of its ID. To avoid domain squatting, he registered `purl-spec.org`.  Philippe said he had registered `packageurl.org` and that might be a more logical choice. The group agreed to use `packageurl.org`.
- Philippe: make sure the IANA registration is included in the milestones.  Michael: already included (PURL Core-Spec v0.90 https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/milestone/1).  Philippe understands how to address the required security implications as part of the IANA registration.
- Matt:  he met with the two developers last Wednesday, discussed the basics of Docusaurus (website creation/generation), an example repo.  They worked on it the past few days, have explored using Pandoc for conversion to .md.  After encountering technical difficulties Matt sent several screenshots to Steve who shared via Google Meet.  Matt described in detail the example pages and various capabilities of Docusaurus, including among many other topics:
    - What might we want for the home/landing page?  Comparing the process to a city-planning exercise, for example, how do we populate our real estate?  Philippe will work with our colleague Adam on this.
    - A second screenshot – "Tutorial Intro" re Docusaurus.  Matt described some of Docusaurus' key features.  Michael: structural (and other) similarities to how we're using .rst (in ReadTheDocs) at the moment.  Philippe: maybe an "adopters" section as well – who and how it's used.
    - Matt: includes breadcrumbs, automatic creation of "next page" links, many other useful features.  Blogs disabled by default but there is a blogs folder we can use if desired.  Philippe: makes sense to have a blog.  e.g., a list of PURL sightings.  Steve: yes, both a blog and case studies would be incredibly useful.
- The meeting was adjourned.
