<img src="https://tc54.org/images/ecma.svg" align="right" height="70" alt="Ecma logo" /> <!-- markdownlint-disable-line MD041 -->

# Agenda for the fourteenth meeting of Ecma TC54-TG2 on 2025-03-28

- **Host**: Remote
- **Dates and times**:
    - 14:00 to 15:00 UTC
    - 15:00 to 16:00 CET (Europe/Brussels)
    - 10:00 to 11:00 EDT (America/New_York)
    - 07:00 to 08:00 PDT (America/Los Angeles)
    - 23:00 to 00:00 JST (Tokyo, Japan)

- **Attendee information**:
  - https://meet.google.com/vwc-duqp-hcm
  - [Meeting invite](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/event?action=TEMPLATE&tmeid=NzAzNjU3ZTk3NHVzYTRsMjdnaG5jbGVkb2VfMjAyNTAzMjhUMTQwMDAwWiBjX2MwODYxYWJlYmRmNjllZjBkZmVjNjgxM2IyN2JmYzdjMjk3ZDU5MThiM2EyZTk3NmZjYTdiYmViMzg1OGE5YjNAZw&tmsrc=c_c0861abebdf69ef0dfec6813b27bfc7c297d5918b3a2e976fca7bbeb3858a9b3%40group.calendar.google.com&scp=ALL)

## Agenda items
- Opening, welcome, and roll call (Chair)
- Review last call minutes: https://github.com/Ecma-TC54/tg2/blob/main/meetings/2025-03-14.md
- Steve: not atm
- Salve: not atm
- Piotr: not atm
- Philippe: progress report
- John: status of qualifiers/percent-encoding PR 398
- Matt: not atm

## Attendees
- Philippe Ombredanne, creator of PURL, Lead maintainer of AboutCode, TC54-TG2 convener
- Steve Springett, OWASP Foundation / ServiceNow
- Salve J. Nilsen, CPAN Security Group, observer
- Piotr P. Karwasz, Apache Software Foundation
- John Horan, AboutCode
- Matt Rutkowski, IBM
- Giuseppe Di Terlizzi

## Notes
- The meeting is being recorded.  Our code of conduct applies to this meeting.
- Intro by Philippe, preliminary matters, proposed agenda.
- Minutes from last meeting: approved.
- Attendees commented on topics they'd like to discuss today.
- Philippe: sharing screen to look at PR 398.
    - Steve: perhaps more efficient to separate the "Character encoding" section discussion into a separate PR.
    - Philippe walked us through the encoding subsections.
    - Piotr: The current approach is the most conservative.  RFC 3986 has a broader coverage.
    - Philippe: discussion going forward will include which characters we do NOT want encoded universally.  Salve suggested starting with a reference to the reserved characters and then list the exceptions.
    - Matt: need to reference correct RFCs, URIs vs. URLs.  And use regex.
    - Piotr: can we add all the RFC 3986 separators? Philippe: no.  Discussion ensued.  Matt: 'pkg' is not registered, right?  Philippe: correct, though there have been communications with IANA.  Matt: need the canonical repository info from the respective package managers.  Steve: not all can be locatable, e.g., SWID, generic types.  Matt and Philippe: we'll add info re types including locatable or not.  Steve: locatability will not always be binary, will discuss with Matt.  Philippe created a new issue: Issue #435 (https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/issues/435).
    - Steve: likes the improvements we've made thus far; notes that it will be essential that we work with all implementations -– internal and external.  Philippe: proposed how we might restructure the qualifiers PR to break out the encoding section.
    - Philippe: summarized the proposed updates to qualifiers, encoding and various other changes – details to be spelled out by Philippe, including single vs double quoting, use of '+', and the use of the term 'component'.
- Piotr: raised a case-related question re the Java implementation.  Discussion on this included parsing behaviors.  Salve: the build process needs to be as strict as possible.  Discussion also included the upper- and lowercase Turkish 'I'.
- Philippe: Discussed PR 428 re splitting the current test-suite-data.json file into multiple .json files.  Steve: has been thinking about putting the tests in the type definitions themselves.
- Philippe: hopes to merge PR 398 by the end of next week.
- The meeting was adjourned.
