<img src="https://tc54.org/images/ecma.svg" align="right" height="70" alt="Ecma logo" /> <!-- markdownlint-disable-line MD041 -->

# Agenda for the sixteenth meeting of Ecma TC54-TG2 on 2025-05-09

- **Host**: Remote
- **Dates and times**:
    - 14:00 to 15:00 UTC
    - 16:00 to 17:00 CEST (Europe/Brussels)
    - 10:00 to 11:00 EDT (America/New_York)
    - 07:00 to 08:00 PDT (America/Los Angeles)
    - 23:00 to 00:00 JST (Tokyo, Japan)

- **Attendee information**:
  - https://meet.google.com/vwc-duqp-hcm
  - [Meeting invite](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/u/0/r/eventedit/NG03amc1MHE2MHAyZjZpYTJjMjVoZXJwNDhfMjAyNTA1MDlUMTQwMDAwWiBqbWhvcmFuQGFib3V0Y29kZS5vcmc)

## Agenda items
- Opening, welcome, and roll call (Chair)
- Review last call minutes: https://github.com/Ecma-TC54/tg2/blob/main/meetings/2025-04-11.md

## Attendees
- Philippe Ombredanne, creator of PURL, Lead maintainer of AboutCode, TC54-TG2 convener
- Daniel Moch, Lockheed-Martin
- Michael Herzog, AboutCode
- Matt Rutkowski, IBM
- John Horan, AboutCode

## Notes
- The meeting is being recorded.  Our code of conduct applies to this meeting.
- Intro by Philippe, preliminary matters, proposed agenda.
- Minutes from last meeting: approved.
- In addition to the agenda topics above, attendees commented on additional topics they’d like to discuss today.
    - Daniel: nothing in particular
    - Matt: nothing in particular
    - Michael: schedule and planning
    - Philippe: status, progress toward 1.0
    - John: nothing in particular
- Michael: Shared (in the chat) a draft document he's prepared -- https://docs.google.com/document/d/1O6cEPE1Y3cUEmjlQOw12WiBQoUonC3yJ/edit.  Dec 10-11 is our target: the date of the Ecma GA (General Assembly) meeting.  Michael summarized the gist of the proposed schedule leading up to the GA meeting.  Philippe: in favor: reasonable, and needed.  Include a standard for PURL types – not the types themselves but the overall 'type' spec, e.g., required/optional fields.  Goal is to evolve each type to be a small structured document: maybe JSON (Steve Springett has begun work on a JSON Schema document – see https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/pull/401), or maybe YAML.  Michael discussed some of the proposed details of the plan.
- Philippe: discussed when generally a new PURL type is OK.  Using the proposed GitHub release type as an example, Philippe explained how a proposal for a new type can sometimes introduce a series of complexities.  Michael: type name "squatting" can also present problems – guidelines are needed to address these sorts of issues.  'vers' in December would be ideal but perhaps not possible as a practical matter.
- Participants discussed how consensus can/should be determined including the "lazy consensus".  Philippe: The CycloneDX approach provides a good model.  Need to get the word out – proposal is to get final draft 1.0 spec. done by June 30.  Michael will create a GitHub issue.  Michael: exploring the use of milestones as well to help structure and schedule the various steps, will work with John on this.  Daniel: looks forward to assisting with the process.
- Philippe: vers is already integrated into CycloneDX and OASIS CSAF.  And CVE.org is considering adopting PURL as a companion to CPE.  Would be ideal if we could include vers on the proposed plan timeline.  Michael: the concept of version ranges (as opposed to a specific version) inside a PURL is rather confusing.  Philippe will do a brief vers presentation during the next TC54-TG2 call (2025-05-23).
- Michael: we also need to consider our release strategy and timelines going forward, important to set expectations.  Philippe: we'll discuss the vers issue during next week's PURL community meeting.
- Philippe: re progress on the spec, there has been a great deal of activity.  Philippe shared his screen and walked us through the latest character-encoding PR 461 (https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/pull/461#issuecomment-2864869043), pushed last night by John.  RFC 3986 section 2.1 (https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc3986#section-2.1) for the percent-encoding mechanism – all other aspects will be governed solely by the PURL spec.  Once the character-encoding section is approved and merged, many of the ambiguities will have been resolved, enabling progress on other issues and PRs.  We'll also be helping the proponents of various types update their respective implementations as needed to comply with the clarified 1.0 spec.
- Philippe: re testing and the 1.0 spec – we want to have ready by December:
    - how to define a type (fields, encoding, test structure not content)
    - correct updated and validate test suite covering all the PURL types, including helping the implementations implement the updated test suite
- Michael: by June 30 we need to understand the various documents' content and structure; and we also need something like a general public website.
    - CycloneDX provides a good example, though our needs are more modest.  We need a target and don't yet have one.
    - Philippe: in addition to the TC54 website, where the spec will live, we do need something for PURL itself that is more accessible, e.g., to less-technical people, perhaps using something like GH pages.
    - Matt noted that while target dates are great, a hosted website might not be needed, and echoed Philippe's example of GH pages – simpler and available.  Matt also offered to help someone create a static website using a tool like docusaurus (https://docusaurus.io/), with which Matt already has experience.
    - Philippe thinks we already have the packageurl.org website if need be.
    - Matt: we could discuss structure, layout in a formal session.
- The meeting was adjourned.
