<img src="https://tc54.org/images/ecma.svg" align="right" height="70" alt="Ecma logo" /> <!-- markdownlint-disable-line MD041 -->

# Agenda for the eleventh meeting of Ecma TC54-TG2 on 2025-02-14

- **Host**: Remote
- **Dates and times**:
    - 14:00 to 15:00 UTC
    - 16:00 to 17:00 CEST (Europe/Brussels)
    - 10:00 to 11:00 EDT (America/New_York)
    - 07:00 to 08:00 PDT (America/Los Angeles)
    - 23:00 to 00:00 JST (Tokyo, Japan)
- **Attendee information**:
  - http://meet.google.com/qji-axhc-wcn
  - [Meeting invite](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/event?action=TEMPLATE&tmeid=MWd2bzcydWloM2h1dWZsYnBwN3Rxc2sxYXZfMjAyNTAyMTRUMTUwMDAwWiBjXzg4NGRlY2RlNWExNTI5MDJiYjUxYTYyZjg5NTUwZDBmMzc0ODQ4NDUzNGYwOGM2Mzc5MmYyZTY1NGYyYTdlYmNAZw&tmsrc=c_884decde5a152902bb51a62f89550d0f3748484534f08c63792f2e654f2a7ebc%40group.calendar.google.com&scp=ALL)

## Agenda items
- Opening, welcome, and roll call (Chair)
- Review last call minutes: https://github.com/Ecma-TC54/tg2/blob/main/meetings/2025-01-17.md
- Steve: spec status in general
- Matt: tool vendors
- Philippe: progress on the spec
- John: none
- Salve: none

## Attendees
- Philippe Ombredanne, creator of PURL, Lead maintainer of AboutCode, TC54-TG2 convener
- Steve Springett, OWASP Foundation / ServiceNow
- Matt Rutkowski, IBM
- Salve J. Nilsen, CPAN Security Group, observer
- John Horan, AboutCode

## Notes
- The meeting is being recorded.  Our code of conduct applies to this meeting.
- Intro by Philippe, preliminary matters, proposed agenda
- Minutes from last meeting: approved
- Attendees commented on topics they'd like to discuss today.
- Philippe:
    - FOSDEM update re frequent mentions/discussions of purl
    - Spec status: moving forward, albeit slowly due in part to the complexities and need for clarifications found on closer inspection of the spec.  Philippe and John have addressed the scheme component update (and John and several community members are working on others).  Discussions with community members, including help on proposal for version and qualifiers.  Many complexities exist in the spec, e.g., when must a colon ':' be percent-encoded?  Hoping to find a way to run all the tools at once to test and clarify the spec, addressing all implementations/parsers.
    - Also addressing other pending PRs when possible, including some involving purl types.  Steve's idea of mini-schema(s) is a good idea and we'll tackle before the end of the month.  Discussed as an example the bazel type – see https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/pull/317 .  Not core spec but highlights the need for a mini-schema perhaps as part of the spec – guidelines/guidance are critical.
- Matt: Some people are getting frustrated with tool vendors – e.g., lack of guidance for proper usage with GitHub Enterprise and private packages.  Matt, Philippe and Steve discussed details, examples and possible solutions including inter alia the repository_url qualifier as well as Steve's mini-schema idea.  Philippe will create an issue for the topic.  Philippe mentioned the assumptions some have re the accuracy of SBOMs as well as purl validation work.
- Salve: sounds like the problem is related in part to the privacy of packages used internally.  Can the purl structure be modified to handle this challenge with a url authority approach?  See RFC 3986 (https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc3986#section-3).  Salve, Matt, Steve and Philippe discussed details.  Philippe: let's make sure we put all these details in an issue.
- Philippe: has had discussions at FOSDEM and elsewhere re private/off-registry packages, especially C/C++ code/packages.  The topic was discussed in detail by Matt, Steve, Salve and Philippe.  Such projects are infrequently packaged and are scattered across various locations.
- Philippe: recap.
- The meeting was adjourned.
