<img src="https://tc54.org/images/ecma.svg" align="right" height="70" alt="Ecma logo" /> <!-- markdownlint-disable-line MD041 -->

# Agenda for the thirtieth meeting of Ecma TC54-TG2 on 2025-12-19

- **Host**: Remote
- **Dates and times**:
    - 15:00 to 16:00 UTC
    - 16:00 to 17:00 CET (Europe/Brussels)
    - 10:00 to 11:00 EST (America/New_York)
    - 07:00 to 08:00 PST (America/Los Angeles)
    - 00:00 to 01:00 JST (Tokyo, Japan)
- **Attendee information**:
    - https://meet.google.com/ryq-aimn-ghd

## Agenda items
- Opening, welcome, and roll call (Chair)
- Review last call minutes: https://github.com/Ecma-TC54/tg2/blob/main/meetings/2025-12-05.md
- Project updates - Michael

## Attendees

- Philippe Ombredanne, creator of PURL, Lead maintainer of AboutCode, TC54-TG2 convener
- Michael Herzog, AboutCode
- Steve Springett, OWASP Foundation / ServiceNow
- John Horan, AboutCode

## Notes

- The meeting is being recorded.  Our code of conduct applies to this meeting.  https://github.com/Ecma-TC54/tg2/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md.
- Intro by Philippe, preliminary matters, proposed agenda.
- Minutes from last meeting: approved.
- Summary
  - Philippe Ombredanne opened the meeting and Michael Herzog reported that John Horan had tagged the v1.0.0 release yesterday, aligning the documentation with the official ECMA standard.
  - Michael Herzog also mentioned ongoing work on open issues, a README update, and the need for a summer patch release.
  - Michael Herzog and Philippe Ombredanne discussed reorganizing the test suite, with Philippe Ombredanne suggesting a one-file-per-test structure using the file system path for unique identification, an approach accepted by Michael Herzog to define test definitions for PURL, and later VERS.
  - Steve Springett and Philippe Ombredanne discussed the importance of tool compliance, transparency for PURL generation, and the idea of a website compatibility table.
  - Philippe Ombredanne also mentioned deploying an evergreen registry of all Package-URLs for air-gapped environments, and Steve Springett suggested using a SQLite database format for this data.
- **Meeting Logistics and Previous Notes** The meeting was opened by Philippe Ombredanne, who reminded attendees that the call is recorded and subject to the code of conduct. The running notes were shared by John Horan in the chat. The notes from the previous call on December 5th were published online and considered accepted as no objections were raised (00:00:00).
- **v1.0.0 Release and Ecma Standard Alignment** Michael Herzog reported that John Horan tagged the v1.0.0 release yesterday, which was a milestone (00:02:33). The primary change involved aligning the text in the /docs/standard folder with the official Ecma standard text, with a README file added to explain the document mapping. Michael Herzog confirmed that the Ecma website remains the source for the official standard text (00:03:35).
- **Open Issues and README Updates** Michael Herzog mentioned an open issue related to the PDF – the link in the "about" box needs to have all the "X" placeholders changed to "427". The README file was updated to be "relatively modern" but still requires two sections: on contributing and acknowledgments. In addition, a repository URL encoding error was spotted by an individual and needs resolution (00:04:38).
- **Release Strategy and Website Development** The topic of CalVer releases for tests and types is being deferred because there is currently a frozen version. Michael Herzog anticipates a "third level" or "patch release" in about a month due to accumulating changes. Progress on the website has been slow due to other priorities on the AboutCode side, but the separation of the tool and specification groups has been completed, and most data is up to date (00:05:43).
- **Website and Documentation Goals** The goal is to have the website updated over the holidays, which is important for referring to documentation rather than individual MD files. Michael Herzog also noted that the next item for the VERS side is reorganizing its documentation, including converting a single RST file to MD and restructuring it to prioritize current information over historical context. They and John have been focusing on setting up the PURL specification repository (purl-spec) to save time later on the VERS specification repository (vers-spec) (00:07:05).
- **PURL Type Approvals and Community Feedback** Michael Herzog reported approving `otp` and another PURL type, and they plan to use the discussions tab for announcements when a new PURL type is added. They noted that community members have contributed by submitting pull requests. Several tickets related to failing tests, often due to character encoding errors, have been closed (00:08:27).
- **Test Suite and Test Case Identification** Michael Herzog indicated that the test suite remains a large topic, and they are interested in discussing options for identifying test cases, an issue that has not been resolved. They plan to propose a rewrite of `tests.md` and noted that the tests are currently organized into two categories – `base` and `advanced` – and four test types are proposed: `build`, `parse`, `round trip`, and `validation` (00:09:28).
- **Validation Test Type and Conformance** Michael Herzog explained that the difference between `round trip` and `validation` is that `round trip` accepts any PURL and returns a canonical PURL, while `validation` accepts any input and returns a set of messages (00:09:28). They asserted that implementations do not need to pass along the exact error messages to their tool to be compliant, aligning with the concept of `advanced` tests being desirable but not required for strict conformance. This framework suggests using validation tools to make inputs conformant to pass base tests (00:11:02).
- **Atomic Test Case Discussion** Michael Herzog mentioned that the idea of having one test case per test file remains a possibility, as does some logical grouping, which raises the question of file naming. They feel that using just a unique string ID is "unfriendly" for those creating and maintaining test cases, and a qualifier indicating test content plus a unique ID might be better (00:12:11). Steve Springett asked if there was an open ticket for this, and Michael Herzog confirmed that issue 765, concerning moving test cases to atomic files, is a placeholder from their last discussion ([https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/issues/765](https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/issues/765)) (00:13:11).
- **File System as Unique Identifier** Philippe Ombredanne stated that using one file per test is the easiest approach, even if it results in thousands of files, as it removes issues about unique test identification by delegating uniqueness to the file system (the file path) (00:15:18). They argued that no internal unique ID is necessary within the file, and file names themselves do not strictly matter as long as they are unique (00:16:20). This approach is helpful for implementers who need a reliable identifier to skip or mark tests as failing. Michael Herzog accepted this input and can propose a structure based on these lines (00:18:16).
- **Test Hierarchy and Structure** Michael Herzog discussed the structure of tests, noting the existing specification tests and a proposal from Jan Kowalleck to add qualifiers. Component-level tests are also planned, with specification-level tests intended for elements affecting multiple components, such as general strings. PURL type tests should ideally not repeat tests handled at the specification level, unless there are type-specific rules like case sensitivity or normalization (00:19:23). The validation test type will require changes to a pull request put together by Tushar Goel (00:20:31).
- **Test File Movement and Scalability for VERS** Philippe Ombredanne also noted that adopting a one-file-per-test structure allows for easier evolution of the directory tree, making it simpler to move tests between component types (00:21:27). They clarified that while the PURL specification test suite is in the hundreds, the VERS test suite is expected to reach the thousands. This is because the VERS project is adopting test suites from upstream versioning tools like RPM, apt-get, and Maven (00:22:30).
- **VERS Specification and Version Comparison** Steve Springett asked if VERS would have a schema. Philippe Ombredanne confirmed that VERS will use the same approach as PURL, potentially having a schema for each version scheme (00:23:38). However, the initial pass will describe version schemes but refer to the upstream specification, and will not formally specify how two versions are compared (00:25:07). This is because version comparison practices in different ecosystems are complex, often resulting from historical "frozen accidents" and accumulated "bugs which became a feature" (00:26:07).
- **Addressing Legacy and Non-Normative References** Michael Herzog suggested that for legacy and non-normative issues, such as the evolution of versioning schemes like Python's PEP 440 (https://peps.python.org/pep-0440/), a mechanism for documenting specific exceptions could be used, perhaps using the Ecma concept of "non-normative references". They suggested this approach for documenting legacy elements rather than incorporating them into the main body of the standard (00:26:07) (00:28:59). Michael Herzog felt Philippe Ombredanne's input provided enough clarity to proceed with the new draft of the test definitions (00:29:53).
- **Tests Defining Version Comparison for VERS** Philippe Ombredanne noted that while a formal description of version comparison may be impossible, the upstream-sourced VERS tests (e.g., from RPM) are effectively specifying the corner cases for comparison, serving as an operational specification (00:31:07). The goal is to have a centralized test suite for VERS in the spec repository that all implementations can use (00:32:28). Philippe Ombredanne provided a link to the RPM test suite as an example (https://github.com/aboutcode-org/univers/blob/main/tests/data/rpmvercmp.at) (00:34:18).
- **Outreach and Tool Compliance** Steve Springett emphasized the importance of transparency and holding tool creators accountable for generating valid PURLs. Philippe Ombredanne confirmed that work has begun on reaching out to tool authors, with plans to finalize pull requests in Q1 2026 to ensure libraries across various languages can pass the test suite (00:36:43). Steve Springett suggested creating a simple table on the website to rate the compatibility of popular tools with the spec, an idea Philippe Ombredanne agreed with (00:39:00).
- **Evergreen PURL Registry and Air-Gapped Environments** Philippe Ombredanne shared that they are deploying an evergreen registry of all package URLs (PURLs) (00:40:02). Running jobs continuously update this list across ecosystems, providing a local data set that can be accessed via language libraries (Python, Rust, Go) for air-gapped environments (00:43:26). Steve Springett suggested making this data available in a SQLite database format for easier download and use in air-gapped environments, which Philippe Ombredanne found to be a great idea (00:46:44).
- **Future Outreach and Commercial Vendors** Michael Herzog outlined a three-level approach for outreach, focusing on open source libraries first, then commercial vendors (some of which are open source), and finally organizations using it internally (00:44:25). Michael Herzog noted that sustained energy is needed for outreach, particularly to commercial vendors and internal users (00:45:42). They mentioned that a major theme for 2026 will be outreach, acknowledging the challenge of finding the right resources for this task (00:48:55).
- **CycloneDX Artifacts and Transparency Exchange API** Philippe Ombredanne mentioned that a massive database of CycloneDX SBOMs is on the radar for 2026, noting that Maven Central alone has 127,000 publicly available SBOMs (00:50:25). Steve Springett suggested using the Transparency Exchange API to autonomously discover transparency endpoints and pull known PURLs from vendors for the AboutCode data efforts (00:51:24).
- **EU Rolling Plan and Ecma Style** Steve Springett reported working on the 2026 EU rolling plan, which included CycloneDX and text for PURL as a standard identifier (00:53:06). Michael Herzog noted that they are incorporating the Ecma style guide into documents, which includes rules like avoiding uppercasing in section titles (00:54:01). Philippe Ombredanne shared a link to the SBOM landscape report from ANA for feedback, noting today is the last day for comments (00:52:29) (00:54:53).
- **Meeting Schedule Adjustments** The next TC54-TG2 meeting on Friday, 2026-01-02, was canceled to allow a fresh start later. The next TG2 meeting is scheduled for Friday, January 16, and the next PURL community meeting is scheduled for January 7 (00:56:31).
- The meeting was adjourned.
