<img src="https://tc54.org/images/ecma.svg" align="right" height="70" alt="Ecma logo" /> <!-- markdownlint-disable-line MD041 -->

# Agenda for the twelfth meeting of Ecma TC54-TG2 on 2025-02-28

- **Host**: Remote
- **Dates and times**:
    - 15:00 to 16:00 UTC
    - 16:00 to 17:00 CEST (Europe/Brussels)
    - 10:00 to 11:00 EST (America/New_York)
    - 07:00 to 08:00 PST (America/Los Angeles)
    - 00:00 to 01:00 JST (Tokyo, Japan)
- **Attendee information**:
  - http://meet.google.com/qji-axhc-wcn
  - [Meeting invite](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/event?action=TEMPLATE&tmeid=MWd2bzcydWloM2h1dWZsYnBwN3Rxc2sxYXZfMjAyNTAyMTRUMTUwMDAwWiBjXzg4NGRlY2RlNWExNTI5MDJiYjUxYTYyZjg5NTUwZDBmMzc0ODQ4NDUzNGYwOGM2Mzc5MmYyZTY1NGYyYTdlYmNAZw&tmsrc=c_884decde5a152902bb51a62f89550d0f3748484534f08c63792f2e654f2a7ebc%40group.calendar.google.com&scp=ALL)

## Agenda items
- Opening, welcome, and roll call (Chair)
- Review last call minutes: https://github.com/Ecma-TC54/tg2/blob/main/meetings/2025-02-14.md
- Steve: status of mini-schema we discussed in prior meeting as well as the core spec
- John-David: get a sense of what the meetings address
- Piotr: get up-to-date re the status and goals of the purl spec
- Philippe: provide status update on the spec work, other info
- John: none
- Jannis: none

## Attendees
- Philippe Ombredanne, creator of PURL, Lead maintainer of AboutCode, TC54-TG2 convener
- Steve Springett, OWASP Foundation / ServiceNow
- John-David Dalton, Socket
- Piotr P. Karwasz, Apache Software Foundation
- John Horan, AboutCode
- Jannis Hermanns, Apple

## Notes
- The meeting is being recorded.  Our code of conduct applies to this meeting.
- Intro by Philippe, preliminary matters, proposed agenda.
- Minutes from last meeting: approved.
- Attendees commented on topics they'd like to discuss today.
- Philippe:
    - SBOM report earlier this week from AutoStar, mentioned purl.
    - Many FOSDEM videos that mention purl as well as a FOSDEM document that mentions purl.
    - Good community meeting last week.
    - Core spec work, including John's work on the 'qualifiers' update; percent-encoding is an issue; ref to RFC 3986 is an option, but rather complex.  Philippe walked us through the PR, current draft, which is rather complex as well.
- Steve: does RFC 3986 have any exceptions that are/could be relevant?  John: one issue is what characters are defined as separators/delimiters in RFC 3986 vs. a particular spec, like purl.  Participants discussed the qualifiers string, RFC 3986 as a source vs. the latest update draft, simplicity and clarity as a goal.
    - Complexity in the spec vs simple ref to the RFC.
    - Philippe: suggested in non-specific terms some sort of simpler approach, details to follow.  Piotr: that would be the canonical form?  Philippe: difficult to say right now because there are various discussions in progress.  John-David: one user has studied the full set of implementations, which likely is relevant and helpful to our efforts.  Philippe: agreed, and he's been very helpful with his comments as well.  Weâ€™ll include all the "gotchas" in the new faq.rst.
    - Philippe: re what's valid vs. invalid: inclined to have a separate section on parsing of errors, warnings, normalization vs raising error/exception, lenient vs. strict.  Steve: the Ecma document has an entire section on conformance, e.g., when must a library return an error.  John-David: encoding is absolutely relevant and guidance would be valuable.
- Philippe walked us through the project board status and plans.
- Philippe: discussed the 'bazel' proposal, using purl 'type' for CPEs, will add a discussion or issue for details.  Philippe: bad idea to use CPEs in purl; Steve agrees.  Philippe walked us through a proper CVE to illustrate how a CPE is used and the extent of its complexity.  Participants discussed the characteristics of the CPE including the challenges of using and interpreting a CPE.
- Philippe: status of the mini-schema.  Steve: purl-type index, kept current with new purl types.  Philippe: some tooling e.g., to validate, ID namespace or other conflicts and so on.  Philippe: no work done on this yet.  Perhaps aim at tackling next month (which begins tomorrow).
- Steve: consider a purl community website containing all relevant information (scheduling etc.).
- The meeting was adjourned.
