<img src="https://tc54.org/images/ecma.svg" align="right" height="70" alt="Ecma logo" /> <!-- markdownlint-disable-line MD041 -->

# Agenda for the thirty-second meeting of Ecma TC54-TG2 on 2026-02-13

- **Host**: Remote
- **Dates and times**:
    - 15:00 to 16:00 UTC
    - 16:00 to 17:00 CET (Europe/Brussels)
    - 10:00 to 11:00 EST (America/New_York)
    - 07:00 to 08:00 PST (America/Los Angeles)
    - 00:00 to 01:00 JST (Tokyo, Japan)
- **Attendee information**:
    - https://meet.google.com/ryq-aimn-ghd

## Agenda items
- Opening, welcome, and roll call (Chair)
- Review last call minutes: https://github.com/Ecma-TC54/tg2/blob/main/meetings/2026-01-16.md
- Website update
- Define PURL  types for ASF projects - see Current Issues in the PURL Spec Issues tab
- Resolve conflict between Spec and Schema for required **qualifiers** - see Current Issues in the PURL Spec Issues tab
- VERS update

## Attendees

- Philippe Ombredanne, creator of PURL, Lead maintainer of AboutCode, TC54-TG2 convener
- Michael Herzog, AboutCode
- Steve Springett, OWASP Foundation / ServiceNow
- John Horan, AboutCode
- Matt Rutkowski, IBM
- Dave Fisher, Apache Software Foundation
- Piotr Karwasz

## Notes

- The meeting is being recorded.  Our code of conduct applies to this meeting.  https://github.com/Ecma-TC54/tg2/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md.
- Intro by Philippe, preliminary matters, proposed agenda.
- Minutes from last meeting: approved.
- Summary
  - Philippe Ombredanne opened the meeting, which included Dave Fisher, Michael Herzog, Steve Springett, Piotr P. Karwasz, Matt Rutkowski, and John Horan, to discuss Package-URL (PURL) adoption, version range specification (VERS) updates, and website progress.
  - Dave Fisher provided context on the Apache Software Foundation's (ASF) need for consistent PURLs for their 200+ projects due to challenges with changing artifact locations, which is similar to the Linux kernel maintainer Greg Kroah-Hartmanâ€™s plan to use PURLs for all released CVEs.
  - Michael Herzog announced that a "production" website is running on DreamHost, and he and Philippe Ombredanne committed to providing the first pass of the VERS text, completed by John Horan, to Steve Springett for review by the following week.
  - The participants agreed that the ASF should maintain control over its PURLs and namespaces, potentially through a one-time registration, while addressing the need for registered PURL types with schemas and tests for implementers.
  - The participants also confirmed that the Julia Package-URL issue, where required qualifiers conflict with the specification, should be resolved by keeping qualifiers optional in the specification.
- **Meeting Logistics and Agenda Review**: Philippe Ombredanne opened the recorded meeting by reminding attendees of the Code of Conduct. Michael Herzog added three items to the agenda: a website update, a discussion about a Package-URL type for Apache Software projects, and a required qualifiers key issue in the Julia PURL type that conflicts with the specification.
- **Welcome and Apache Software Foundation Context**: Dave Fisher was welcomed to the meeting, explaining they are the VP of tooling at the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) and are working on a trusted release process, which includes building a catalog of releases and older artifacts. They noted the challenge of managing consistent URLs for ASF artifacts, as the location changes between a live release and an archived release, and pathing differs across the 200+ projects.
- **FOSDEM and Project Announcements**: Philippe Ombredanne, Steve Springett, and Piotr P. Karwasz briefly discussed their recent attendance at FOSDEM in Brussels, noting the value of the "hallway con" and fringe events. Philippe Ombredanne highlighted a related event where representatives from CISA and ENISA were present, along with Greg Kroah-Hartman (Linux maintainer) and Daniel Stenberg (cURL maintainer) discussing vulnerability management and the proposal for using PURLs for the Linux kernel.
- **Package-URL Adoption in the Linux Kernel**: Philippe Ombredanne reported that the Linux kernel maintainer, Greg Kroah-Hartman, wants to use PURLs to backfill all previously released Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVEs) and use them going forward. They noted that the problem faced by the kernel is similar to the ASF's situation, and the adoption by a major entity like the kernel will be significant for leading the way.
- **Broader PURL Interest and Internal Packages**: Discussions at FOSDEM revealed that there is significant interest in using Package-URLs to track the inventories of non-public, non-open-source, internal, or private packages/products within large organizations. This interest stems from the desire for a single specification for identifiers, though some adjustments might be needed to achieve this goal.
- **Update on Version Range Specification (VERS)**: Steve Springett requested an update on the Version Range Specification text, noting they will have more time over the coming month to work on it. Philippe Ombredanne committed to having the first pass of the work, completed by Michael Herzog and John Horan, ready by the end of the current week, with text available for Steve Springett to review sometime the following week.
- **VERS Specification Document Structure**: Michael Herzog provided context on the VERS documentation, explaining that the existing omnibus document has been broken into pieces, with the main one being the "specification". They confirmed that the current focus is on the core specification definition, comparable to section five of ECMA-427 (https://ecma-international.org/publications-and-standards/standards/ecma-427/), and they will not try to include a schema in the first edition due to time constraints and lessons learned about premature standardization of schemas.
- **Website Update and Production Launch**: Michael Herzog announced that John Horan has been working intensely on the website and that a "production site" is now running on DreamHost, while GitHub.io is being used for staging. They expect to tag the first release (v1.0.0) for the website soon, noting that the content is the primary focus, and the team intends to use a release process with patch-level updates for editorial content and minor-level updates for normative changes.
- **Apache Software Foundation Package-URL Discussion Context**: The discussion shifted to the ASF's specific challenges regarding Package-URLs, noting that ASF projects range from Java (like Solar, Log4j) to Go, Rust, Python, and JavaScript, with unique project names enforced across all top-level projects. Dave Fisher explained that ASF artifacts are distributed through dist.apache.org (https://dist.apache.org/repos/dist/) and archived via Subversion, where older releases are moved and accessed via a heavily rate-limited archive URL, unlike current releases which use a fast CDN.
- **ASF Publication Ecosystem Complexity**: The complexity of ASF releases was further detailed, mentioning that Java projects are available in Maven Central through a dedicated Nexus instance, which is somewhat private and rate-limited. Furthermore, non-JVM projects may also publish packages on other ecosystems like PyPI or Crates.io, and the packages released on these external sites can differ subtly from what is available on the main apache.org site.
- **ASF Artifact Identification Needs**: The fundamental issue is providing proper PURLs for everything provided directly by the ASF that does not belong to a structured, incorporated ecosystem like Maven. Dave Fisher explained that the new ASF process is more structured, involving a hierarchy of committee, project, and version, and that while source tarballs are the only required artifacts, the binary packages (which can number in the hundreds per release for projects like OpenOffice) are also important.
- **Legal Distinction of ASF Binaries**: Matt Rutkowski clarified that the ASF's designation of binaries as "not official" is primarily an internal, legal distinction, as legal staff forbade the organization from officially supporting binaries because they wanted users to be able to create their own. Dave Fisher agreed that as far as the consumer is concerned, anything released by Apache is considered official.
- **Proposed Solution for ASF Package Identification**: Philippe Ombredanne emphasized the goal is to reliably detect ASF code, obtain a Package-URL, and ensure tools can make sense of it. Dave Fisher confirmed they are building a catalog that could include a special file for each release, listing all artifacts and their locations. Philippe Ombredanne suggested two conceptual paths for Package-URL creation: defining ASF as its own package type (e.g., `pkg:apache` or `pkg:asf`), or using a common package type with a Package-URL registry for namespace assignment.
- **Decentralized Approach Using Domain Names**: Steve Springett proposed a variation of the registry approach using the existing scid proposal that incorporates a domain name, such as `org.apache`. This decentralized approach could be enhanced by a metadata file and automated to avoid the Package-URL project becoming a bottleneck. Steve Springett also suggested using a lightweight, decentralized mechanism for location information, similar to the IETF's `well-known` spec (https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc8615).
- **Need for Centralized Authority in Decentralized Systems**: Philippe Ombredanne acknowledged the preference for decentralized solutions but noted that the ease of use of Package-URLs often relies on a "centralized invisible hand" where ecosystems like Maven enforce uniqueness. The consensus was that ASF should maintain full control (stewardship) over its own Package-URLs and namespaces, possibly through a one-time registration of the namespace (e.g., `apache.org`).
- **Support for Tool Implementers and Name Conflicts**: Michael Herzog stressed the importance of having registered Package-URL types with schemas and tests for tool implementers to ensure conformance. Steve Springett pointed to RFC-9472's (https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/rfc9472/) example of `.well-known/sbom`, already in use, and suggested we could use, for example, `.well-known/purl-locator.json` to facilitate decentralized location. Dave Fisher confirmed the ASF is capable of defining the URL tree structure (committee, project, version, package) and is seeking guidance on organizing this information into a Package-URL.
- **Refocusing the Definition of Package-URL**: Michael Herzog suggested moving away from the academic question of "what is a package" to defining "what is a Package-URL," which is primarily an identifier and a locator for software. The scheme originated with package managers, but the mission is broader: to identify and locate software through a nearly universal system, acknowledging that multiple Package-URLs may exist for a single piece of software depending on its distribution.
- **Discussion on Julia Package-URL Qualifiers**: The team briefly addressed the issue of the Julia Package-URL type having a required qualifiers key, which conflicts with the current specification that states qualifiers should be optional. Michael Herzog confirmed that the issue fundamentally lies in the conflict between the specification and the schema, and they believe the answer is to keep qualifiers optional in the specification, with advanced tests potentially recommending them for specific cases like Julia's unique identifiers.
- **Meeting Conclusion and Next Steps**: Philippe Ombredanne concluded the meeting, thanking Dave Fisher for their participation and noting that the discussions provide a clear path forward for suggesting a Package-URL structure for large organizations like the ASF and the Linux kernel. Michael Herzog confirmed they will continue working on the Apache ticket, noting that the goal is to develop a coherent and consistent scheme that is not necessarily uniform across all ecosystems.
- The meeting was adjourned.
