<img src="https://tc54.org/images/ecma.svg" align="right" height="70" alt="Ecma logo" /> <!-- markdownlint-disable-line MD041 -->

# Agenda for the thirty-first meeting of Ecma TC54-TG2 on 2026-01-16

- **Host**: Remote
- **Dates and times**:
    - 15:00 to 16:00 UTC
    - 16:00 to 17:00 CET (Europe/Brussels)
    - 10:00 to 11:00 EST (America/New_York)
    - 07:00 to 08:00 PST (America/Los Angeles)
    - 00:00 to 01:00 JST (Tokyo, Japan)
- **Attendee information**:
    - https://meet.google.com/ryq-aimn-ghd

## Agenda items
- Opening, welcome, and roll call (Chair)
- Review last call minutes: https://github.com/Ecma-TC54/tg2/blob/main/meetings/2025-12-19.md

## Attendees

- Michael Herzog, AboutCode
- Steve Springett, OWASP Foundation / ServiceNow
- John Horan, AboutCode

## Notes

- The meeting is being recorded.  Our code of conduct applies to this meeting.  https://github.com/Ecma-TC54/tg2/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md.
- Intro by Michael, preliminary matters, proposed agenda.
- Minutes from last meeting: approved.
- Summary
  - Michael Herzog convened the TC54-TG2 meeting, which focused on the PURL specification updates, the development of the VERS specification, and website restructuring.
  - Steve Springett raised concerns about realistic timelines for VERS and PURL updates, noting the need for the VERS normative text to be complete by the 2026-03-02 TC54 meeting for the June General Assembly (GA).
  - Michael Herzog anticipates a minimal VERS scope to meet the March deadline, with John Horan tasked with splitting the VERS document, and believes a PURL update is more likely in December than June, unless an ABNF grammar from Jan Kowalleck and Piotr Karwasz is added.
  - They also discussed integrating the proposed C and C++ registry effort with `scid` and CLE, and the need for a lightweight namespace registration process.
- **Meeting Logistics and Agenda** Michael Herzog convened the TC54 TG2 meeting on behalf of Philippe, noting the meeting is being recorded primarily for generating minutes. The minutes from the previous meeting, held about a month prior, are posted online on the TG2 site. Steve Springett requested to discuss realistic timelines for VERS and if there will be an update to the PURL specification through Ecma this year.
- **PURL Specification Updates and Grammar** Michael Herzog estimated that a PURL update is possible around June or December. They mentioned work by Jan Kowalleck and Piotr Karwasz on an ABNF grammar for PURL, which might be included in a standard, although a formal request for this inclusion has not yet been made . Michael Herzog stated that more documentation like "how to" guides and the major overhaul of the test system are not planned for inclusion in the standard .
- **Timeline for PURL and Schema Changes** Michael Herzog noted that activity has primarily focused on testing and validation. They mentioned the vague guidance around the "qualifier for repository vcs_url," which is not in the standard but has led to complicated questions, suggesting a need for clarification. Michael Herzog indicated that a PURL update is more likely to happen in December than June, unless the grammar is added, and is unaware of any major schema changes planned.
- **Developing the VERS Specification** Michael Herzog reported that John Horan is tasked with breaking up the single VERS document into chunks, separating historical commentary (FAQ type file) from the actual specification to mirror the approach used for PURL. The goal is to produce a first cut of the VERS spec, focusing on defining a schema for versioning, as the current standard description is somewhat vague and confusing, even to those with technical backgrounds. They anticipate a need to change nomenclature (e.g., from `versioning scheme` to names similar to `package-name`) and clarify constraint syntax.
- **VERS Timeline and ECMA Submission** Michael Herzog stated that by keeping the VERS scope minimal, they should be able to meet the March gate for the first edition of VERS, which would include a base schema but no test schema intended for the standard. Steve Springett confirmed that the June General Assembly (GA) is on June 29th and indicated the normative text for VERS needs to be complete by the March 2nd TC54 meeting to allow for the required 60-day window. Michael Herzog believes this timeline is achievable, with John and themself preparing the initial draft for group review, following a parallel approach to Ecma style.
- **Non-Normative References in VERS** Steve Springett raised a concern about referencing specific versioning schemes within the VERS specification, emphasizing that they are not official standards, including possibly SemVer. Michael Herzog agreed that references to versioning schemes should be non-normative, similar to the PURL specification, which had very few normative references. Michael Herzog mentioned that splitting the VERS document will help the team focus on the specification component without being distracted by the extensive preamble and post-specification material.
- **TC54 Specifications for General Assembly** Steve Springett summarized that two specifications are likely for the June GA: VERS and the Transparency Exchange API, while CycloneDX 2.0 and possibly a PURL update are being looked at for the December GA. Michael Herzog concurred with this timeline, noting that internal PURL releases may occur but no formal publication is expected before the second edition. Michael Herzog also highlighted the challenge of outreach and communication with those in communities like OWASP who are interested in PURL but not actively engaged in other relevant channels.
- **Website Restructuring and Staging Environment** Michael Herzog announced a focus on the VERS side and test structure, including streamlining the website. The plan includes restructuring the VERS section of the website into clearer subsections, replacing the current large markdown file copy. Michael Herzog confirmed the use of GitHub.io as a staging environment for draft material, which will be clearly marked as such, and that the production site will be hosted at www.packageurl.org. Steve Springett supported the idea of creating a staging environment for draft material.
- **Specification and Tool Card Content** Michael Herzog sought feedback on the necessary content for the specification and tool cards on the website, particularly what information should be displayed on the front card versus the modal (more detailed view). John Horan confirmed that the tool card data is maintained in JSON files within the website code. Michael Herzog noted the challenge of handling proprietary licenses for tools like "Bulletproof Trust," suggesting they would reach out to the submitters for guidance on representation.
- **Missing Tool Card Information and Functions** Steve Springett suggested adding "author or publisher" information to the tool cards. Michael Herzog agreed this is a good addition for clarity, as it helps identify the source of the submission and provides informative context. A significant open question remains on how to describe tool "functions" in the context of PURL or VERS, especially since some functions, like version sorting, are prominent for VERS but not relevant for PURL.
- **Logo Approval and Supporters Page** Michael Herzog outlined the need for a process to approve logos for types, referencing recent issues with the Erlang and Yocto Project logos. They expressed a more conservative approach than Philippe regarding explicit approval for logo usage, particularly from companies, extending this concern to listing company supporters. Michael Herzog wants to avoid broadcasting support without a good faith basis of explicit approval, though Steve Springett noted that OWASP has a lightweight process and frequently receives requests from medium and smaller businesses to list their logos for brand recognition.
- **Outreach Templates and Website Appearance** Michael Herzog mentioned that templates for adding a new PURL type and registering company participation are planned as reasonable January deliverables. John Horan reported that the current website color scheme is their customization of the Docusaurus default, aimed at being quiet and professional, rather than using the original bright orange and cute icons. Michael Herzog is prioritizing readability and simplicity over extensive aesthetic or branding schemes and is open to outside help, possibly via an intern, for technical work on the website.
- **Test System Reorganization and Backlog of Types** Michael Herzog confirmed that tests remain an open issue, with a huge backlog of types. The plan is to implement a new test structure with base tests broken down by component (required for conformance) and additive type-specific tests. The agreed-upon approach for test cases is the atomic test cases using the path as a unique name, which Michael Herzog needs to finalize a proposal for. Michael Herzog indicated that addressing the backlog of PURL types is a major task for 2026, noting that the team prioritizes currently active contributors.
- **ServiceNow and `scid` PURL Types** Michael Herzog and Steve Springett discussed the status of ServiceNow and `scid` PURL type proposals. Steve Springett clarified that the ServiceNow type is ready, awaiting time to move the markdown documentation to the self-defining schema. Michael Herzog confirmed that `scid` requires more discussion.
- **C and C++ Registry Effort** Michael Herzog introduced an early proposal from AboutCode for a C and C++ registry that overlaps with `scid`, focusing on open-source projects. This effort, which has received positive feedback from organizations like NLNet and Linux kernel maintainers, aims to address the "missing registry" for C and C++. The proposal includes building up the PURLDB to contain a database of known versions, with AboutCode seeking funding and providing tools for data collection.
- **Integration with Common Lifecycle Enumeration (CLE)** Steve Springett suggested that the C and C++ registry and `scid` could benefit from a registry of sorts and indicated a potential opportunity to integrate with the work being done on CLE (TC-54 TG3). CLE, which uses PURLs, could provide versioning information automatically to the PURL registry, as newer events are always appended to its feed. Michael Herzog agreed to open an issue to discuss the integration of PURL and CLE, noting the need for greater knowledge on CLE and formalizing the namespace registration process.
- **Namespace Registration and Conflict Resolution** Michael Herzog emphasized the need for a lightweight registration process for namespaces and qualifiers, similar to CycloneDX, rather than the more rigid SPDX style. They noted that a financial incentive for squatting on these registries is unlikely, minimizing some potential problems. The process needs to address how to handle conflicts, drawing inspiration from processes used by services like Read the Docs for reclaiming inactive names.
- **Conclusion and Final Remarks** Michael Herzog expressed the goal of getting the site ready for FOSDEM and thanked Steve Springett for the productive discussion. Steve Springett agreed that it was a good opportunity for integration between Ecma standards (TG2 and TG3). Michael Herzog noted the need to define an outreach strategy to attract more interest in the published standard.
- The meeting was adjourned.
